# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2019-12-17

Present:

* Kevin Sutter (IBM)
* Bill Shannon, Ed Bratt, Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Andy McCright (IBM)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* David Blevins (Tomitribe)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
* Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
* Steve Millidge (Payara)
* Martin Stefanko (Red Hat)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Edwin Amoakwa
* Nathan Erwin

## Agenda

### [KWS] Platform Call frequency in 2020?  Start weekly (Jan 7), except for weeks with PMC call?  And, revisit in Jan or Feb timeframe?

**DECISION:** Continue weekly at least through January. Revisit in February

Practical: Use the same Google Doc for the agenda and add it to the Calendar invite. 
Ivar will update the calendar.


### [SM, KWS] Release Plan

Discussed the release plan:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/18cwfYhEqv_msIdH1DSVDXJc-QaUJ6zjPgmG6JHfLRrA/edit

Discussed and updated the Release Plan:  

* Need an Exception clause at the end of the Namespace Change paragraph.
* Interceptors needs to move to Wave 1.
* Verify that CDI in Wave 3 is sufficient (looks okay).
* Adjust Wave 1 content to separate out Specifications without any dependencies.


### [SM, KWS] Release Date

Narrow down the Proposed Timeline (milestones).
Proposed dates (not firm, likely drift) - emphasize early estimates.
Refer to the above discussed release plan.

_Didn’t get to the other items below..._

### [DB] Gating Factors

### [SMS] javax to jakarta package namespace changes are happening without major version update (JAX-RS).

---
This was the last Platform Call for 2019.
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

