# Jakarta EE Platform Monthly Call #2

General
Date: 2019-11-12

Present:

* Kevin Sutter
* Bill Shannon
* Ivar Grimstad
* Emily Jiang
* Tanja Obradovic
* Martin Stefanko
* Ken Finnigan
* Edwin Amoakwa
* Carlos Andres De La Rosa
* Steve Millidge
* Rudy De Busscher
* Alessio Soldano

## Agenda

* Organize ourselves

Kevin (IBM) and Steve (Payara) volunteered to take on the Delivery Owner and Co-pilot role for Jakarta EE 9. Final confirmation pending.

Keep the current meeting time: 11:00 AM EST.

Minutes will be published at 
(Jakarta EE Platform Project Web Page)https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/ 

Source of minutes:
https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/blob/gh-pages/minutes


* [KWS] Big Bang vs Incremental.  Need to decide.  Several projects are stomping at the bit to move on the package rename exercise.

**DECISION**:  Big Bang is the stated direction.

* [KWS] Java SE 8 or Java SE 11 as the minimum.  Another key decision to allow for continued development efforts.

* [IG] “Jakartify” the specification documents.
Status: https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/projects/2

* [IG] Decide which specifications to prune/deprecate.
Publish specific proposal(s) to Platform dev mailing list.  Steve volunteered to organize the material and post for a “vote” by Platform Committers.

* [TO] Tanja to find out a list of committers on the Jakarta EE Platform Project and invite them to sign up to the platform project mailing list - look here

* [KWS] Determine a dependency graph for the remaining projects and work out a spreadsheet (or some doc) of all of the pieces of required work.
   * Work with David Blevins on the dependency work that he did previously.


Steering Committee, October 29, 2019:

**RESOLVED**, the Jakarta EE Steering Committee requests that the Jakarta EE Platform Project leadership deliver a Jakarta EE 9 Delivery Plan to the Steering Committee no later than **December 9, 2019**, for the Steering Committee to consider adopting as the roadmap for Jakarta EE 9, and that the Jakarta EE 9 Delivery Plan accommodates the following constraints: 

* implements the “big bang”
* Includes an explicit means to identify and enable specifications that are unnecessary or unwanted to be deprecated or removed  
* Moves all remaining specification APIs to the Jakarta namespace
* States that no new specifications are to be added, apart from specifications pruned from Java SE 8 where appropriate, unless those specifications clearly will not impact the target delivery date

The plan shall define a delivery date, and the team should view meeting the above requirements in as early a timeframe as possible as a higher priority than adding additional functionality to the release.


