# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-03-24

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Dalia Abo Sheasha (IBM)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Bill Shannon (Oracle)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Jonathan Coustick (Payara)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Werner Keil (Committer)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Martin Stefanko (Red Hat)
- Edwin Amoakwa
- Carlos Andres De La Rosa(Eclipse committer)
- Nathan Erwin (Eclipse Contributor)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)

## Agenda

### [IG, BS] Suggestions for Call Logistics

- Always have the call (even with empty agenda upfront)
- Agendas are everyone’s responsibility.  Anyone can add agenda items to the list -- just indicate who originated the agenda item with name or initials.
- Meeting reminder (at least 24 hours before call)
- Start Zoom early (1 hour) and display banner with start time
   - difficult to accomplish since we can only have one zoom call active at any one time.  Or, other meetings may conflict.
   - FYI, next week’s call puts us back in sync (due to daylight savings time difference between US and Europe)
- If meeting ends early, leave Zoom session running with banner displaying that information
   - This should be doable
- Everyone should add their own name to the agenda/minutes as attending the call
- Everyone please help keep minutes :)
- Last week's unmeeting was recorded via Bill Shannon keeping minutes, we should do that for future unofficial calls.

### [IG] XML Schemas

- Complete (xml schemas) spreadsheet
   - Speak up if any schemas are missing
   - Does JAXB have any schemas?  (Ed was going to check with Dmitry)
- Preview: https://deploy-preview-691--jakartaee.netlify.com/xml/ns/jakartaee/
   - A question was asked (Kevin Sutter?) about whether the format could become too long, and if we needed to create a more compact format where we would link out to the different versions
      - For now, we’ll follow the format used by Java EE and just leave everything on a single page with a TOC at the top of the page
      - Watch the “deploy link” above to see how this page evolves based input before the PR gets merged...
   - BIll Shannon shared the link http://www.oracle.com/webfolder/technetwork/jsc/xml/ns/javaee/index.html as an example
- Release Process:
   - Every project producing a schema is responsible for publishing it to jakarta.ee
   - Publish by submitting a PR to https://github.com/jakartaee/jakarta.ee
      - Add the schema to static/xml/ns/jakartaee
      - Update the descriptor file data/schemas.yml 
      - Ivar will be documenting the process.  This should probably become part of the PR Template that is used for the Spec Versions releases.
- Suggested Namespace: https://jakarta.ee/xml/ns/jakartaee - **DECISION**
   - Some non-platform namespace examples:
      - http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_1_0.xsd
      - http://xmlns.jcp.org/xml/ns/persistence/persistence_2_2.xsd
      - http://www.jboss.org/xml/ns/javax/validation/configuration/validation-configuration-1.1.xsd 
      - https://beanvalidation.org/xml/ns/validation/validation-configuration-2.0.xsd 
   - Can applications still reference non-platform namespace in EE9 (ie. persistence)?
      - Yes, this would be allowed.
   - Bean Validation is currently using the xml/ns/javaee (sic) namespace in the M1 version of BV 3.0.0 and plans to move to the jakartaee namespace.

### [KWS] Eclipse Transformer Project proposal 

(moved to end of agenda since BJ can’t attend until the bottom of the hour due to a last minute conflict)

- https://projects.eclipse.org/proposals/eclipse-transformer 
- BJ Hargrave will be walking us through the proposal and educate us on the capabilities of this Transformer project
- Initial goal of this project is to help with the javax to jakarta namespace update, but it could be extended to other use cases
- BJ works on the BND project and built the transformer initial prototype around the transformation project (built on BND).
- Could do transformation at runtime via classloader, or build time.
- Potential use as a shader to help with bridging between JPMS modules and OSGi bundles.
- Main use case is Jakarta EE.
- Concern about extra stuff included, as people might not want everything included.
   - Being able to plugin less should be possible to achieve.
- Handling Class.forName(String) by intercepting and handling different names passed.
- Injecting property handling at runtime, that is similar to Class.forName() problem.
- Is this project looking at source level?  
   - No, use existing IDE + other tools for refactoring
- Does tracking of this project need to be at platform level?
   - https://github.com/tbitonti/jakartaee-prototype/issues is for community discussion
   - Will move to Eclipse project on github once proposal is accepted and provisioned
   - Are there any gotchas of this not being a JakartaEE (EE4J) project?
