# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-02-25

Present:

- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Andy McCright (IBM) 
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Bill Shannon (Oracle)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Andy Guibert (IBM)
- Nathan Mittlestat (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Fred Rowe (IBM)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Brian Decker (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Nathan Mittlestat (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)

Regrets:

- Nitin Dahyabhai (IBM, Eclipse Web Tools Platform)

## Agenda

### [KWS] Milestone/Release Candidates

Need assistance for generating the preliminary Milestone/Release Candidate API for JAX-RS, EJB, JSTL, and JSF.  Once these are complete, then we could do a Milestone/Release Candidate API for the Platform and Web Profile.

https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-ee4j/projects/17#column-7346435 

- Waves 0, 1, 2, and 3 have completed their API updates
- Wave 4 is missing JAX-RS
- Wave 5 is missing EJB, and JSTL
- Wave 6 is missing Faces
- Wave 7 is missing Platform and Web Profile

Kevin volunteered to update the Platform APIs with the Milestone/RC APIs for the Jakarta EE projects.

### [IG] Compatibility Certification Request for JEUS 8.5

https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/156
Looking for some Platform team assistance in reviewing and approving this request

### [KWS] Compatible Impl and TCK effort and getting ready for June release

- Bill and I are concerned about the CIs
- Steve is a bit more concerned about the TCKs
- Steve has allocated a full-time engineer on Glassfish (yeah!).
- Still looking for a Glassfish Release Plan kickoff from Payara and Fujitsu
- Initial plan record is here https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.glassfish/releases/6.0.0 
- Tanja asked about when we would have a better idea on what the real date is…  I replied that end of March looks like a good date-for-a-date guess...

### [AG] Decoupling and modernizing TCKs [see: mail thread]

- **Goal 1:** Decouple TCKs (like CDI, BeanVal, and MicroProfile) for easier 
development and testing of specs
- **Goal 2:** Use a test framework that is more widely known by the community. Proposed: JavaTest → Arquillian+JUnit
- **Demo:** [<5min] Current proposal with JSON-B TCK tests
- Andy walked through a short presentation and showed the necessary test code updates.  He also demo’d how the tests are executed.
- Bill requested a POC that shows how this new style of testing (CDI, BV, JSON-B) could be utilized with the current TCK execution.  This could demonstrate how this work could be done on a per-project basis instead of a big-bang requirement.  Andy will work with TCK experts to see whether this is doable.
