# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-09-29

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Housekeeping with the zoom call

Leave the public zoom coordinates in our Agenda header.  
This approach enables a “waiting room” for participants.
Can add domains to automatically allow in but not individual email addresses.
At this point, we do not want to enable a password for this meeting.

### No Platform call next week (pmc call occurs at the same time)

### All specifications have a PR for Jakarta EE 9 now!

### Platform Specification (Kevin is driving)

* Web Profile and Managed Beans specs are in good shape
* Corba/IIOP removal (David is working on this)
  * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/220 
  * Does this removal affect the TCK assertions?  - Scott Marlow?
    * TCK assertions 
  * [Marlow] The RMI-IIOP/Corba tests are still in the Platform TCK, they are marked optional tests that are not run by default. 
    * What does it mean to keep the assertion ids for these test?
    * What does it mean that these tests are in, is RMI-IIOP/Corba technologies optional or removed from the Platform spec?
  * Should we remove these RMI-IIOP/Corba tests instead?
    * We should of created a separate TCK for these tests
    * By default, if we keep the tests for RMI-IIOP/Corba there will be confusion.
    * We could delete or exclude the RMI-IIOP/Corba tests.
      * [Marlow] Reach out to David and get his input on removing versus excluding the RMI-IIOP/Corba tests.
      * We should try to be consistent on how we handle pruning/removal of technologies and their tests.
        * This process should be documented on Platform TCK project.
        * We should document what we did with regard to removing tests.

  * Lack of module names (document our approach for jakarta ee 9)
  * Compatibility section (based on input from Will and Dan (steering committee))
  * Jakarta EE 9.1 release (uncommitted + just mentioning ideas)
    * Jakarta EE 9 requires Java SE 8 for compatibility
    * Something beyond Jakarta EE 9 (9.1, 10, …) will allow additional Java SE’s beyond 8

### Jakarta EE 10 (recurring agenda item)

* Platform Guide
    * Ivar will set up a Google Doc where can start working on this
* [WK] JDK version (range)?
