# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-02-11

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- David Blevins (Tomitribe)
- Bill Shannon (Oracle)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (IBM, WTP PMC)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Martin Stefanko (Red Hat)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)

## Agenda

### The Biyearly Timezone confusion [IG]

As a consequence of beloved politicians fondness for daylight saving time switch to occur a couple of weeks apart for North America and Europe, the meeting calendar will be updated to use North American time zone (sorry Europe). This will cause this meeting to be an hour earlier in the EU (...and UK...) in March. 

**Decision:** Continue with weekly meetings (except the first week) through March. Ivar will update the calendar.

### Removal of old signature test files in TCKs. [BS]

**Decision:**  Remove the old signature test files in the TCK source repos.  They are still available via past releases/8.0 tag, but there is no need for them going forward with Jakarta EE.

**Side Discussion:**  Bill brought up a long-standing issue with the TCK signature tests regarding dependence on Java version.  He will document this via an Issue.


### Allowed changes - @Deprecated, generics, etc. [BS]

Discussed changes other than javax->jakarta without violating the release plan.

**Decision:** Allow adding @Deprecated to the Java code where it is currently available in the Javadoc

**Allow Generics**

Discussed how the IDEs would support the app developers with this kind of change.
Defer decision on generics to the call next week.
Need Arjan to create an Issue with an example of the proposed change.  (KWS will follow up with Arjan.)

**Decision:** Allow repeatable annotations

Will need to discuss how to handle source incompatible changes in future releases.
Need to establish rules for incompatible changes (like “deprecate for removal” in the JDK)


### Property names - javax.* or jakarta.*? [BS, KWS]

namespace/other-javax-references.adoc mentions some of the props

Platform Spec should include a new chapter on backwards compatibility recommendations.

**Decision:** Change javax property names to use jakarta for the properties defined by Jakarta EE.
