# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-08-11

Present (please put your name down here to mark yourself as present…):

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Guillermo González de Agüero (Individual)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Gabriel Bussolo (Individual)

## Agenda

### Update on the EFSL

* Nothing has to be reverted for Jakarta EE 9. Kevin will send out a note.

### Wiki

* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/wiki/JakartaEE9
* Wiki page to track the various pieces showing status, progress, howtos, etc.
* Easy to edit by committers - just click Edit in the upper right hand corner of the page
* The Platform TCK results link needs to be updated.

### Spec finalization checklist

* https://github.com/jakartaee/specification-committee/blob/master/spec_finalization_checklist.md - need to update to indicate that the mentor sends out the ballot and what the template is.

### File names for TCK

* Can TCK file names differ from recommendation?
* We don’t have a process for this and would be too much process to require all names to follow the name convention now.
* The final TCK name could be changed by the promotion script (later during promotion) to match whatever we want it to be.

### Discussion of Jakarta EE 9 Release Date

* Sept 16 is no longer viable (Kevin sent out a note and updated the Schedule per this information)
* What’s the next “best guess?
   * EclipseCon (~ Oct 20) has been thrown out as an idea.
* Major hurdle is getting all of the Specs, APIs, TCKs, and CIs ready for ballot.  The final hurdle is the Platform TCK and CI.
   * The rest of the process after the ballot is minor.
* Scott Marlow explained the current situation with the TCK testing and associated process.

### Discussion of remaining PRs for Jakarta EE 9

https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-ee4j/projects/17#column-9442495 (this column shows the remaining PRs that still need to be created)

* **Connectors and Concurrency** -- Kevin pinged Steve on Slack.  Supposedly these were close to being ready last week…
* **Faces, Security, and Messaging**.  Our one-man wrecking crew (Arjan) could probably use some assistance to get these completed.
* **JSP and JSTL**.  Paul indicated that he and Arjan were getting close on prepping JSTL for the PR.   Still looking for someone to drive the JSP PR…
* **Enterprise Beans**.  Cesar and Jean-Louise volunteered to drive this PR for David.
* **JSON-B**.  Dmitry will finish this one now that he’s back from vacation.
* **JAX-RS**.  Dmitry indicated that Jersey was working on their implementation.  He will follow up with that team to find our current status and find an owner.  I will also ask our IBM participant to see if he can help.
* **Transactions**.  Not sure on the status of this one.  Scott Stark indicated he would touch base with Tom Jenkinson to see where we are at.
