# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-04-14

Present:

- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Bill Shannon (Oracle)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (WTP)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Rudy De Busscher (Payara)
- Martijn Verburg (LJC)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Nathan Erwin (Eclipse Contributor, Independent)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)

## Agenda

### [WK] Namespace

As we had a couple of discussions and action items like (XML) schema, what would be the impact if a future Jakarta EE version added new namespaces like “org.eclipse.x” in addition to the current “jakarta” namespace?

Minutes:

- Ivar demo’d https://jakarta.ee/schemas/ and the associated namespaces
- The comment from Werner about future namespaces such as org.eclipse.microprofile was recognized, but tabled until it becomes an issue in the future.
- In general, implementation specific namespaces (ie. glassfish) still need to be investigated.  Ivar volunteered to follow up with this action.

### CI Tool(s) for Jakarta EE

- There have been PRs like https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/openmq/pull/497 in some spec or impl (“CI” as “Compatible - - Implementation” here) projects asking to use Travis-CI. Is there a strategy or coordinated effort regarding CI build pipelines? 

Minutes:

- Is there anything preventing the use of Travis as a backup CI?  No.
Jenkins is required to do the release processing.  But, other CI mechanisms can be used on a per-project basis.  

### Kevin asked for the current status for Activation, Mail, Bean Validation and Batch. Seems to be very close to draft PR.

Minutes:

- Dmitry gave a status of all the specs led by Oracle
- Bean Validation dependent on Hibernate Validator and WELD (CDI). Still tests to fix. When CDI is released, BV can move forward.


