# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-06-01

Present:

- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)
- Darran Lofthouse (Red Hat)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Versioning Scheme

* Proposals: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZQGEYSCN5eYtDjWOXAQqNin7iwLKHnQFEP73FDoQdbw/edit?pli=1
* Straw Poll: https://survey.sogosurvey.com/r/7lENNA 
* **Please answer this!**

### EE10 Issues

* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AEE10 

* Java SE version
  * Agreement that Java SE 11 should be the baseline for EE 10, possible to run on 17. Meaning api’s can not use language features past 11
  * Individual specs may very well start planning releases that use 17 language features. Will be picked up by a profile/platform when ready

* JPMS
  * At a minimum, we need consistency
  * Naming convention for module-info?
  * What are our requirements for the spec jars in order to pull them into the profiles/platform?
  * **Action:** Need a platform list email to move this discussion forward.

* TCK
  * Cross-cutting concerns (e.g. CDI), security, transactions etc.
  * Test integration concerns at the profile level
  * Need to break the circular dependencies
  * Layering of specs?
  * Split out the spec-specific tests
    * CDI will be used as an example/PoC to how to do this
  * Need an example from one of the TCKs that are produced from the platform TCK
  * **Action:** Need CDI and perhaps JAXRS TCKs refactored as examples of how to breakup TCKs that currently have circularity issues.

* Platform Core Architecture
  * Need to get started with the document
  * Specs can refer to this document
  * Need to define the status of this document, e.g. relation to TCK
  * **Action:** We need a version of the arch document that defines expectations for specs as an asciidoc in the platform specification tree.

* EE10 Direction Statement
  * Add something about web profile and platform

* Deprecate JNDI++ in favor of Config
  * Post EE10? Need to know a little more about how Config will be first
  * **Action:** The core profile is aligning with Config and CDI-lite. Need platform list email to guage interest in other profiles and specs waiting for or delaying support for Config.

* Jakarta Config
  * Should Config be a key feature of 10?
  * When plan for for Config is out, ask the spec projects?