# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-09-28

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces / Piranha)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Project Board created: https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/projects/5 
* Specification documents
  * Spec Committee tracking spreadsheet
  * https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YTUpfdLZZrk2_UGwoX2w0seOCueRO3sQJIjWxpDAa7g/edit#gid=35969432
  * Spec Committee EE10 Reviews GitHub Project
  * https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/projects/1

* Gather/keep track of all features/changes in the component specifications
  * Overview
    * Example of what Arjan used for Java EE 7:  https://javaee7.zeef.com/arjan.tijms 
  * List of links to posts of new features
    * asciidoc/markdown?
  * What is being worked on?
  * Ask for update from the project leads
  * **Action:** Ivar will create a Google Form to send to the project leads for feedback/status/tck (new or existing)
    * Could help crystalizing a theme for the release
    * deprecation/trimming etc.

### XML Schemas revisited (Ivar)

* Are there any schemas for specs that are not updated for Jakarta EE 10?
* How do we handle them?
* Discussion:
  * If the spec is not making a release, the previous version is used,
  * Permissions xsd - mark as deprecated

### Milestone versions of specifications

* GlassFish 7.0, OpenLiberty, Wildfly, TomEE
  * Will be able to certify on 17 in addition to 11
  * Should we try to synchronize (like we did for 9.1)?

### There will be “a couple” of additional external TCK this time

* REST
  * Compatible implementations will need to run both the new and the existing TCK. 
  * There is a minimum of overlapping tests in the new and the existing

* Faces
* Batch

### Arquillian
  
  * Central tech for the TCK
  * Does it make sense to move arquillian-core over to Eclipse as a dedicated TCK tool?
    * [Discussed in the Batch project](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartabatch-dev/msg00209.html) 
