
3 Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-02-16

Present:

- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Otavio Santana (Platform.sh)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- David Blevins (Tomitribe)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 9.1

* Plan endorsed by the Steering Committee and approved by the Specification Committee
* GitHub Project Board
* Issue created to ensure CORBA is properly specified as Optional
  * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/300 
* GlassFish 6.1 now running on JDK 11. Merged to master. Tests can be started soon.

### [WK] True Modularity of a future Jakarta EE release, at least 9.2 or 10

* A side story of the discussion around possible Jakarta REST Client contributions from MicroProfile was the desire to have finer-grained modularity, e.g. Jakarta REST Client and Server in two separate modules. Just like the `java.se` module consists of nearly 20 other modules in Java SE 15. 
This does not rely on Jigsaw alone, before defining more than one monolithic module (as every Jakarta EE 9 API does that applies at least an Automatic-Module-Name) the packages must be separated into (Maven) modules that are available independently. So far in Jakarta EE 9 I believe WebSocket 2.0.0 is the only Spec with a separation between Server and Client, and it also does in the MANIFEST file, both OSGi bundle and Automatic-Module-Name `jakarta.websocket` and `jakarta.websocket.client`.
All the others are monolithic even if they support the JPMS.The perfect example (not yet JPMS but Maven-based) would be NoSQL, it’s Communication module contains half a dozen modules with some as fine-grained, that they could be reduced to supporting only Document, Key-Value or Column-based NoSQL systems. Other candidates might be:
  * REST (Server vs. Client similar to Websocket)
  * Persistence (a “Core” or “Lite” module allowing use in Java SE or MicroProfile as well as a with a possible synergy with NoSQL, e.g. reusing annotations)
  * CDI: The whole “CDI SE” or “CDI Lite” discussion is the perfect case for fine-grained modularity while CDI in Reality doesn’t even use JPMS yet
  * Security (could be more modular e.g. multiple authentication mechanisms, etc.)
  * JSON-P (if the “DOM” like part and Streaming API could be clearly separated)
  * Faces (much too big, should be broken down into multiple modules, unless it is not relevant enough today? ;-)
  * Mail (also quite big, see Faces)

* Discussion during call

  * The separation of Server vs Client (ie. WebSocket, REST) is relatively straight forward
  * It gets more difficult when the API/SPI is used to load the desired implementation (ie. NoSQL). Service loader mechanism.
  * Lukas explained how this works with JAXB
  * Relationship between JPMS and OSGi.  Figuring out a means of allowing these two technologies to co-exist will be key.  Both Glassfish and Open Liberty are dependent on OSGi (others?).
    * WildFly is using JBoss Modules which is also important.
    * Jetty supports being consumed as JPMS and OSGi both.
    * Piranha is said to use JPMS quite a lot.
    * Helidon makes extensive use of JPMS including Jigsaw-enabled MP APIs (which seem repackaged because the official ones don’t even contain an Automatic-Module-Name yet)
    * Tomcat/TomEE has intentionally avoided OSGi and similar modularity.
    * Modules should be enabled for those who support it, but not require all servers and users to use modularity.
  * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/saaj-api/issues/43 - user submitted comparison of current hk2osgiresource locator vs OSGi mediator spec
  * **Key Summary from this discussion:**  The Platform needs to define rules for the module names for the APIs.  Right now, there is a suggestion for those APIs which have stepped ahead of the Platform.  But, it’s not a firm requirement yet.  (This was briefly discussed as part of 9.1, but it was pushed out…)
    * Some design thought is required.  It’s not a boilerplate operation that applies universally to all Specifications.
    * How does a defined module naming convention apply to the uber jars that we create (ie. Platform and Web Profile)?
      * This is an issue, applications could ‘requires servlet’ but if you have it in an uber you would have to instead ‘requires jakarta.uber’, etc.
      * Should implementations that use these uber jars pass TCK based on the uber jar by not specifying a module name?
        * In other words, module names only have to be correct if a module name is included.
    * Would a TCK also support optionality e.g. have MVC but not Servlet/JSP/Faces or vice versa in the Web Profile?
    * Does this also mean certification requests can come for just the individual module (a CCR for REST Client for example)?

### [Emily Jiang] How can a spec group make decisions, e.g. supermajority or over majority  among comitters or something else?

* Recommendation is to write down (and agree) on the decision making process. Then apply it. As long as it does not violate the Eclipse Development Process.

### Keep the Platform Project in the Loop

* Specification projects are encouraged to join the platform call and tell us what they are planning. Have a round-table discussion with the platform team.
