# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-11-16

Present:

- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle) -- Stand-in Host
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Werner Keil (Commiter/Ambassador)
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)¨
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
- Tomas Langer (Oracle)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Still need interceptors release (need a committer to get it done)
    * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/interceptor-api/pull/90 is merged.
    * https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.interceptors/who
    * https://ci.eclipse.org/interceptors/job/1_interceptors-build-and-stage/configure - needs to update the JDK to 11 to build

* Discussion on Interceptors -- Needs dependencies staged first  (Annotations). Then, Interceptors can be staged.
    * And then later update Interceptors to the next staged Annotations update.
    * Dmitry will take responsibility to get Annotations released. After it is final, dependent components can pull those artifacts for their proposed/final releases
        * Note that Standalone TCK is needed for Annotations for final release of Annotations.

* Discussed some of the probable steps to achieve these steps.

* Perhaps consider adding some of the procedural recipes (e.g. how to release) for all projects. Some of this material is available in legacy form at the Eclipse.org wiki. This is a longer term concern.

* Where is the release wave doc for Jakarta EE 10? Scott, can you provide a link to this doc?

### [Emily] Next step on @Priorty discussion

* initiate a vote? Details are [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15MM8tX1sS_i5OacrgZZPmkT8WVamQkkziLChVVopOPw/edit#)

* Emily discussed the proposal in general terms. We discussed how to get broader review from other specification teams.
    * Identify impacted component specs and get feedback from those specs.
    * Create surveymonkey survey
    * Update solution D to be two separate options.

* This is **NOT** proposed for EE 10. We may want to stage some of the changes if necessary in preparation for a subsequent EE release.

### Scott Kurz raised the question about Batch / CDI as discussed last week. 
    
* Discussion about potential for CDI Beans. Interested members should review the [thread](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg02929.html) and start deciding if this is a reasonable evolution for the EE 10 Specification.

### Latest Spec. status

* Mail 2.1, Activation 2.1, RESTful Web Services 3.1, JSON Binding 3.0, JSON Processing 2.1, Expression Language 5.0 have initiated a release review PRs but none have reached ballot yet. 
