# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-11-30

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Tomas Langer (Oracle)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)
- Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- Werner Keil (Committer, Ambassadors)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Service releases dependency issues
    * We have Java SE 8 based service releases depending on minor updates. We need to be careful not to introduce SE 11 target other than module-info. (interceptors updated a dependency on annotations and changed to SE 11 target).
    * We have new major releases that Java SE 8 service releases depend on (transactions and ejb depend on cdi). We may be able to keep cdi at the SE 8 source level to avoid problems, but technically, a service release is depending on a new major release that has backward incompatibilities. Via semver rules that should require a new major release of the dependee.

### [Emily] Jakarta Interceptors release: minor vs. service release

* CDI 4.0 -> Annotation 2.1

* Interceptors 2.0 -> Annotations 2.0
    * Only module-info included results in Interceptors 2.0.1
    * With annotations requested by CDI results in Interceptors 2.1
        * Does 2.1 require Java SE 11? Or only a module-info
* A Interceptors 2.1 release would result in a service release for EJB (not needed to do a minor)

* Enterprise Beans 4.0 -> Interceptors 2.0

* Enterprise Beans 4.0 (service release of the artifact) -> Interceptors 2.1
    * No spec text changes, just the dependency

* How does a major release of CDI affect Transactions/EJB etc?
    * Transactions 2.0 -> CDI 3.0
    * Transactions 3.0 -> CDI 4.0 (EE 10 version)?
        * **We need a Plan Review for Transactions 3.0 (if a 3.0 is required)**
        * More details needed here as to why we need Transactions 3.0
            * ~~The only why is because of Transactions transitive dependency on CDI~~
            * ~~Other why,~~ could be due to TransactionScoped dependency on CDI (if CDI changes in incompatible way).

* **Action:** Dependency graph for intended versions for Jakarta EE 10
    * Scott Stark and Jan will start this (creating dependency graph for EE 9.1 and proposed EE 10)

* **Action:** Define rules for versioning based on changing dependency versions
    * What does it mean when a specification has a declared dependency on another specification?

* Discussion around the breaking changes in CDI 4.0
    * Changed default behaviour of empty beans.xml
    * Diff between 3.0 and 4.0: https://ladicek.github.io/cdi-spec/diff5.html 

### Narrow down the estimated release date for Jakarta EE 10

* Marketing will need 6-8 weeks to prepare the fireworks
* Current estimate is Q1, 2022
    * Looks like the release will slip into Q2
