# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-01-26

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 9.1

* Java SE Compatibility (#287)
  * There were references in the platform spec very limited to Java SE 8
  * Would not allow us to move to Java SE 11 runtime
  * This issue (287) suggests to loosen up the language in the spec
  * We want to limit changes regarding Java SE level to the platform spec(s)
  * Changes in the individual specs regarding this should be limited to updates in the specification document if necessary
  * `java:comp/orb` references are in both the Platform and EJB spec (why the EJB spec?)
  * Kevin will open an Issue to declare the CORBA ORB as optional in the Platform spec -- how would this affect the EJB spec?
    * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/300 
    * This actually shows that the Platform spec is in pretty good shape.  And, if this was sufficient for Jakarta EE 9 and EJB 4, then is there any reason why EJB 4.1 would require an update?  Doubt it.
  * Applet Container removal -- Issue for next release? 
    * https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/298 
    * Deprecated in Java SE 9 
      * https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.desktop/java/applet/Applet.html 
      * https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/javaclientroadmapupdatev2020may-6548840.pdf 
* Conclusion: Looks like we will **not** need to release a new version of Jakarta Enterprise Beans. We will try to cover everything in the Platform specification.

### [KWS] Specification Service Releases

* Issues and PRs created to clarify process
  * https://github.com/EclipseFdn/EFSP/issues/29 
* Will be an agenda item on tomorrow’s Spec Committee call w/ Wayne

### Guesstimates on Dates for Jakarta EE 9.1 release date

* Should run current Jakarta EE 9.1 TCK against Glassfish with Java SE 11 just to get a reading on the overall impact (TCK, Glassfish, both) -- Action for Scott M and Glassfish team.
Other app servers could also feed in their experiences (Open Liberty, Wildfly, TomEE, etc)

### TCK action for 9.1

* David: Remove `PortableRemoteObject.narrow` calls in TCK tests.
* Make Corba ORB references optional.
  * Scott: Duplicate tests + remove ORB from one copy of the tests.
* Platform TCK/GlassFish teams to discuss where SE 8 TCK testing happens for 9.1
  * Current plan is for GlassFish Jenkins to do SE 11 TCK testing.

### Schema discussion (added at end of call, more followup needed...)

* https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/9/jakarta-platform-spec-9.html#schemas talks about requiring Jakarta EE 8 schemas in EE 9.