# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-10-12

Present:

- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Tanja Obradovic(EF)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Discussed updating module-info for API jars without release plans that want to support both Java SE 8 and Java SE 11
* Multi-release JARs? Or compile twice to produce two JARs?

### [Emily] Module-info location

* Where should the module-info.class be located? Shall the jar be a multi-release jar?
* Must be possible/easy to exclude module-info when packaged in uber-Jar 
* Summary:

   * module-info must be placed in the root of the JAR
   * The four specs from JDK 8 already support module-info: Activation, XML Binding, XML web services, SOAP attachments
   * + jsonp, mail, persistence, jsonb
   * In case a spec wants/needs to support previous versions of Java, a multi-release JAR may be required for that spec (e.g., JAXB in EE 9/9.1)
   * Multi-release JAR is not needed just for adding the module-info


### [Emily] Module-info support

* Only module-info file required, no tck provided?
* Not needed any tests for Jakarta EE 10
* Will be validated as a part of the ratification of the spec
* Add checklist for what to verify:
   * Module-info in root
   * Multi-release JAR if supporting older version 
   * etc..?

### [Tanja] Jakarta EE Update call 

* Call for the community Wednesday, October 13th 1100 ET; Scott S. or would anyone else like to provide status on Jakarta EE 10?
* Contact Tanja if you’re up for it!

### [Ivar] Individual Specifications feedback form

* 13 responses so far
* Expected Release Review Start
   * October 15: Expression Language, Server Pages, WebSocket, Servlet
   * October 20: Activation
   * October 22: JSON Processing, Mail
   * November 11: JSON Binding
   * November 15: CDI
   * November 19: Persistence
   * November 24: XML Binding
   * November 26: SOAP Attachments
   * November 30: XML Web Services
   * December 1: Batch

### [Ivar] CCRs for Jakarta EE 9.1 on Java SE 11+

* Is passing the Jakarta XML Binding TCK result required?
   * See https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/397 
* If an impl of JAX B is included, then the TCK must be run and the TCK results be displayed


### [Nathan Rauh] Jakarta Concurrency - context propagation SPI proposal for other specs to use

* Give feedback to the issue and/or PR in the Jakarta Concurrency issue tracker
   * Issue:  https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/concurrency-api/issues/103 
   * PR:  https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/concurrency-api/pull/149 
* Context propagation SPI will be added (from MicroProfile) to Concurrency in Jakarta EE 10


