# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-08-03

Present:
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Majid Mostafavi
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)

## Agenda and Minutes

### [KWS] Discuss Jakarta EE 10 Release Plan

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U24VmTzAfXcn3WBnVcolb8vhZO-Pnk_bit0CKh_d2jM/edit?pli=1#heading=h.bzkb0r6v92il 
  * A couple of outstanding questions

* JPMS Modules discussion
  * Will leave the open modules item open a few days to verify with the vendor teams
  * Also applies to whether automatic module names should be disallowed, or just recommended against
  * We will not revert any module info created for Jakarta EE 9 to automatic module names

* Jakarta REST for EE 10 will be version 3.1 based on discussions on their mailing list.  In a similar vein, Jakarta Servlet for EE 10 will be version 6.0 based on their discussions.

* Will require two PRs -- one for Platform and one for Web Profile (eventually one for Core Profile as well)
  * Goal to have the PRs ready for ballot within a week

* Include Concurrency in Web Profile? (currently in Platform)
  * Scott raised the question of MP feature inclusion into Jakarta Concurrency having an eye towards existing implementations. Scott also raised a question about the requested “merge” of MP Context Propagation with Concurrency.  But, this is separate from the question of whether Concurrency should be moved to Web Profile.
  * No dissension on the call, so Kevin will post back to the mailing list and adjust the release plan accordingly.

* Scott Stark (Red Hat) announced that he will take the release lead role for Jakarta EE 10 Platform and Web Profile with the goal to deliver in Q1 2022. Thanks Scott!
  * We need to start tracking the status for the Component Specs with their releases for 4Q2021

### [IG] Vacation period

* Ed will host the call on August 10 as Ivar is out
* Meeting coordinated are the same as always
