# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-10-19

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Tomas Langer (Oracle)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* 14 specs have responded the status request form
* What does this mean for the remaining?
    * **Action** - Ivar: Reach out to project leads and remind to submit the form or initiate release reviews
* Start tracking tighter, push for release reviews and ratification
* Monthly TCK calls

### Discuss module-info testing requirements

* What if any requirements are needed for non-project implementations?
    * none
* Are there any TCK/signature test requirements and who is signing up to do them?
    * none
* Spec committee needs to define any ratification requirements.
    * Spec committee will define this
        * Does it exist?
        * Is it readable?

* Discussion:
    * No requirement for vendors to include a module-info in their product
    * Up to each project to determine what they want to test
        * Packages exist, typos etc.
    * Scott will respond on the mailing list and update the wiki

### Need common annotations release plan or argue for service release

* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/423
* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/common-annotations-api/issues/92
* The project currently lacks project lead
* Dmitry will help:
    * Create release plan for 2.1 (PR)
    * Create the release 2.1

### Issues created for service releases needed for adding module-info to specs not doing a release for EE10.

* Encourage these projects to do a SR ASAP
