# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-02-09

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Otavio Santana (Platform.sh)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 9.1 Plan review

* Completes tomorrow (Plan)
* Glassfish and TCK would need to be complete by first week of March to allow for sufficient voting period before end of March.
* Target is to start vote for release by March 31

### Prepare for Jakarta EE 9.2 or EE 10 release

* Communicate a deadline for individual Component release plans -- **April 15**
  * Consider the use of the jakarta.ee News website for communication.
* Communicate a need for a new Release Lead -- **looking for a volunteer**
* New minimum **Java SE 11** version for the next release?  Could have a ripple effect across many APIs.
* Possible platform level concerns
  * Embrace CDI in component APIs (where not done fully yet)
  * Refactor TCK (extract spec level TCKs)
    * Structure how the spec tcks are pulled into the platform tck (maven?)
    * Concern that refactoring will prevent a release, need to make sure that doesn’t happen / can refactor over multiple releases
* Poll the vendors for input to how the platform should evolve?
  * Kubernetes ?
  * Cloud native technologies?  MicroProfile?
  * Messaging platforms?
  * Dmitry mentioned a doc that the Platform or PMC put together a year or two ago about future directions… https://www.eclipse.org/ee4j/direction.php 
* The contents of the release plan should be possible to implement and deliver within 6 months. If features require longer implementation period, the release plan should be phased so it can be released in 6 months cycles
* Target Release date of the next Jakarta EE release will be in **October 2021**

### Follow the MP alignment
 * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lOTdSvtH1eQA7Saa4WIwJeM_Z7-o0KSOXgK5K7bSoII/edit?usp=sharing
