# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-07-13

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Thomas Watson (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Tomas Langer (Oracle)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- John Clingan  (Red Hat)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)

## Agenda and Minutes

### [KWS] API Versioning (follow up from previous two calls)

* Kevin sent out a note concerning the Platform and Web Profile API uber jar files:
  * https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg02719.html 
* BJ clarified some misunderstandings and misdirection in my original note
* Just want to ensure that we are all on the same page with respect to component API jars and the uber Platform jar files
  * If your component Specification is planning a Major version update for Jakarta EE 10, then the recommendation would be to recompile and distribute your APIs at the Java SE 11 source/target levels.
  * If your component Specification is planning a Minor version update for Jakarta EE 10, then the recommendation is to continue compiling and distributing your APIs at the Java 8 source/target levels.  If there is a compelling reason to recompile your APIs at Java 11 target level, you are welcome to do that.
    * FYI, BJ recommends just combining these first two bullets as follows:
      * If your component Specification is planning a Major or Minor version update for Jakarta EE 10, then the recommendation would be to recompile and distribute your APIs at the Java SE 11 source/target levels.
  * If your component Specification is not planning either a Major or Minor version update for Jakarta EE 10, then just leave your APIs as-is.  If you feel compelled to recompile and distribute at the Java 11 target level, then plan for a service release (x.y.z) to indicate the change.

* Minutes:
  * The recommended combining of the two bullets (Major and Minor version) is approved.  We will leave this as a “recommendation” and not a “requirement” to allow component APIs to stay at a lower JDK level if the move to Java 11 is not a requirement.
  
  * Any building of the API jar files should use the “--release” option to the compiler (instead of the source/target java levels).
    * `<maven.compiler.release>11</maven.compiler.release>`

  * The Platform and Web Profile uber API jar files will all be re-built with the Java 11 target level (consistent with past practices).
    * For Jakarta EE 10, we will keep creating the uber JARs. 
    * Later versions may replace these with BOMs
    * Write somewhere (pom description?) that the ubers are deprecated for removal

### Versioning Scheme (hold over from last week, anything new?)

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZQGEYSCN5eYtDjWOXAQqNin7iwLKHnQFEP73FDoQdbw/edit?ts=60b68f2e# 
* Survey V2
  * https://survey.sogosurvey.com/r/bfeaPr
* Anything new with this topic?
* New slides from Jan: 
  * https://drive.google.com/file/d/12EIE6XZ-aLPftsELod2hSXEZd0UgJ4iQ/view?usp=sharing 

* Discussion:
  * A new profile could be feature based for first release?
  * “Mature” profiles time-boxed?
  * Time box?
  * Roadmap for the platform
    * Tie it to the Java SE LTS releases?
    * Effectively a three-year Major release cycle (platform+profiles)
    * Query the spec teams what they would want to do with newer SE versions?
    * Architectural overview relative to Java SE levels needed
  * *(to be continued)*

### Inquiry about Security Manager
* Who is interested, how to approach from the Platform level. (Ed Bratt) (For reference, see [JEP 411](http://openjdk.java.net/jeps/411))
