# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-06-15

Present:

- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- Werner Keil (Committer, Jakarta EE Ambassador)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Majid Mostafavi

## Agenda and Minutes

### TCKs (queued from last week’s call)

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yDXTUUULUrFrUi1DV_9OcBKIiZLVxrZkA38MMvYdP-U/edit#
* Core Profile TCKs
* Web Profile TCKs
* Full Platform TCKs

* Discussion:
  * CDI marks tests with assertions that indicate the specification
    * Main issue is just maintainability to make it easier for new people to work on tcks.
    * Bean validation does the same with TestNG
    * For MVC (using JUnit), we are also using AssertionIDs copying the way it was done in Bean validation
    * Do other specs specify profile
      * We have had optional tests using test frame nomenclature
      * We want to get away from optional tests
  * Should we use TestNG only or JUnit5 only?
    * No, we should support both.
    * Test suites need to composable from both JUnit5 and/or TestNG
      * The composable criteria is key
    * Test suites need to be runnable via maven
    * Have a platform (surefire) TCK runner
      * Have the profiles configurations that you want to be able to run
      * Arquillian doesn’t care which test framework is used (both are supported).
    * Having a recommended tool to use would be good.
    * CDI TCK using Testng
      * Works well with choosing different profiles
      * We should get input from BV + CDI teams on this.
  * Should Arquillian (container integration) be required by all TCKs?
    * No, not all Specs need a container
  * Platform TCK users should be able to 
    * Use their existing Porting TCK api implementation?
      * Cesar: Need to keep the current Platform TCK tooling working for users.
        * Platform TCK should could consume servlet TCK tests via maven artifact that can be run from maven
        * How can Platform TCK consume that servlet artifact
          * We can have the artifacts downloaded and  available locally.
          * Or download artifacts from the Maven repository.
    * Keep using their existing Ant scripts which are currently deeply used in EE 9.1 Platform TCK?
      * Can users move over to Maven instead of ant?
        * Users will likely need to switch to maven unless ant script support is kept (ant is likely to be dropped).
        * Switching to Maven could mean it takes longer for some users to migrate to EE 10.
          * Hopefully the amount of time for users to migrate to maven will be a fixed amount of time.
  * We could create a new Maven based Platform TCK.
    * Or start new Maven projects in the existing Platform TCK.
  * It would be nice to establish the EE implementations being tested with AQAvit (Test Framework) within EF Adoptium (former AdoptOpenJDK project)
    * Testing with Tomcat (done)
    * Testing with new Java SE versions

### Java SE level

* Ballot runs until June 21
  * https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg02650.html 
* Results to be discussed next call (June 22)
* **Please vote if you haven’t done so yet!**

### Versioning Scheme

* Proposals
  * https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZQGEYSCN5eYtDjWOXAQqNin7iwLKHnQFEP73FDoQdbw/edit?ts=60b68f2e# 
* Survey V2
  * https://survey.sogosurvey.com/r/bfeaPr
* **Please vote if you haven’t done so yet!**

### JPMS

* Discussion Thread
  * https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg02632.html 