# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-10-26

Present:

* Kevin Sutter (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Tomas Langer (Oracle)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Vano Beridze (Jakarta EE Ambassador)
* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle) - 5:10pm+ (CET)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Kevin will send reminder to project leads to start release reviews
* JSON Binding may be a 3.0 (not a 2.1 as announced)
    * Backward incompatible changes
    * Updated release plan is needed
    * PR for new Plan Review. Dmitry can initiate when PR is ready

### Jakarta Interceptors service release

* PR to update module-info created
* Blocks other specifications, such as CDI
* Follow up with Jakarta Interceptors project to get a release staged

### Verify TCKs on other implementations than GlassFish

* Is it each specification project’s responsibility?
* Should the platform team monitor this effort?
* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/issues/762#issuecomment-948715298 
* For Jakarta EE 10, vendors must run both the standalone and the platform versions of the TCK
* The goal should be to simplify running the TCKs against vendor implementations

### Standardize the output from the TCK?

* Define a generic format (xml or json) 
* Leave it to the individual projects to produce results on this format
    * Platform test vehicles are defined here.
* Include any error output?
    * At a minimal level, include the number of test failures.
* Has the user implemented any optional technologies?
* **Action**: Create an issue in the Platform issue tracker to discuss the output format for the summary output - Ed -- See Jakarta EE Platform [#426](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/426)
* Use this to provide a recommendation to the spec committee

### Next call on November 2, 2021

* DST ends in Europe on October 31, so this meeting is at **16:00 CET**
* North America: Relax, same time as always at **11:00 EDT**