# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-06-11

Present:

* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Kyle Aure (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Anand NK (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Adam Yoho (IBM)
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Werner Keil (Ambassador/Committer)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Top-of-mind from Ed and Arjan

* Security Spec going to ballot?
    * Arjan asserts the mentor need to take actions to start the ballot
    * ACTION: Discuss at Specification committee tomorrow.
* Platform TCK
    * What happened at the call last week?
        * Top priority for the Platform TCK is to understand how much time is required to complete the refactoring.
            * Still not in a position to give a date for a date.
            * Plan is to build a way to scale up and parallelize the work.
        * There was no plan all along for a plan B to go back to the previous way of doing things.
    * Status of “have a meeting every week from now until EE 11 is done”?
        * Updated the calendar for links to these meetings.
        * ACTION: Scott Marlow to update the [calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=eclipse-foundation.org_e9ki8t2gc75sh07qdh95c8ofvc@group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America/New_York) of record.
        * In the meantime, the meetings will be at 11am EDT Wednesdays at the same Zoom number as usual: \
Join Zoom Meeting
        * [https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/96059419718](https://eclipse.zoom.us/j/96059419718)
    * Emily offered some suggestions on the way forward, in terms of project management and prioritization.
        * Let’s keep the focus on what we need to know to get clarity on the schedule.
        * The marketing concerns will adjust accordingly, and push back if necessary.
    * Arjan suggested more transparency regarding the remaining TCKs that need to be completed. Perhaps a Google sheet. This would give us a better ability to understand the size of the remaining work.
        * Example: \
[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18BARERS-smPDv6vfK-73k5Gy3OrA2mUvBamwL7iGA3Q/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18BARERS-smPDv6vfK-73k5Gy3OrA2mUvBamwL7iGA3Q/edit#gid=0)
        * ACTION: Scott Marlow: produce a document (estimation worksheet) that allows us to understand how much work remains to be done. 
            * This is the set of “TCK vehicles”.
            * Let’s enumerate the TCK vehicles
            * Let’s put a % complete next to each one.
    * Tanja
        * Can the TCK team enumerate the set of skills the individuals need to have in order to be productive?
            * EE component TCK team members.
        * Include this in the notification of the schedule slippage to the Steering Committee.
    * **Ed and Arjan to go to Steering committee next week with Scott Marlow’s estimation worksheet and the outer bound slippage estimate, currently pegged at one quarter.**
        * Arjan suggested using [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18BARERS-smPDv6vfK-73k5Gy3OrA2mUvBamwL7iGA3Q/edit#gid=0](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18BARERS-smPDv6vfK-73k5Gy3OrA2mUvBamwL7iGA3Q/edit#gid=0) as example.
* Steering committee
    * What happened at the call last week?
    * They asked for what date is feasible.
    * Arjan reported that the work is done for specs, APIs, and implementations.
    * Summer holidays were discussed, regarding the schedule slippage.
* Actions for 2024-03-29 and M3
    * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
        * M3 release
            * Lingering, in staging
            * Waiting: servlet and pages
            * Will be released shortly after 
        * Pages and Servlet to hit maven central.
* Data 1.0 is done on schedule.
* Data impl for GlassFish [8.0-JDK17](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/tree/8.0-JDK17).
    * Updated to run against `glassfish-8.0.0-JDK17-M6.zip`
    * [https://github.com/jakartaredhat/hibernate-data-tck-gf/wiki/JD_100_TCK_Results](https://github.com/jakartaredhat/hibernate-data-tck-gf/wiki/JD_100_TCK_Results)
    * [Hibernate-data-tck-gf](https://github.com/jakartaredhat/hibernate-data-tck-gf.git)

### **Previous wave**

* Wave 5 release review initiated by 2024-03-29
    * Spec projects
        * **Jakarta Authorization **
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed \

        * **Jakarta Persistence***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
        * **Jakarta Validation***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
        * **Jakarta WebSocket***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
        * **Jakarta Servlet***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
            * (some final small steps remaining)
        * **Jakarta Pages***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
            * (some final small steps remaining)
    * Service releases
        * XML Web Services
            * Published last week
        * Tag Libraries
            * Need to update dependencies.
                * Need to be done by Paul Nicolucci.
                * Needs TCK challenge [https://github.com/jakartaee/tags/issues/255](https://github.com/jakartaee/tags/issues/255) also to be completed for Java 21
                    * [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pull/1320](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pull/1320) is merged, EE 10 Platform TCK service release needs to be created and Tags TCK as well.  
                * Status: Being worked on. Draft PR created.
    * Actions for 2024-03-29 and M3
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * M3 release
                * Lingering, in staging
                * Waiting: servlet and pages
                * Will be released shortly after 

### **Current wave**

* Wave 6, 7 specs release review initiated by 2024-04-27
    * Spec projects
        * **Jakarta Faces***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
            * Speedbump 
                * Ticket filed. See [JEA-378 ](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/378)for link to GitLab ticket.
        * **Jakarta Data*** (release review initiated by 2024-05-31)
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
            * ACTION: Ed needs to update the platform release plan to refer to version: 1.0.1.
        * **Jakarta Concurrency***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
            * **We need the TCK 3.1.1 service release with high urgency **
                * **[https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/issues/511](https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/issues/511)**
            * ACTION: Ed needs to update the platform release plan to refer to the service release to depend on 3.1.1.
            * Kyle asked: do we really need to have a different version for the service release of the TCK as for the spec?
            * Nathan observed other specs do this differently. There is not a uniform way to do this.
        * **Jakarta Authentication***
            * Ballot started. Running till June 19th
            * 7 +1s already
        * **Jakarta Security***
            * PR Filed [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/741](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/741)
            * CCR for JDK 21 and JDK 17 added
            * Should be ready,** but just doesn’t start???** \

### **Risks**

* **Finish the platform / profile TCKs**
    * When will the refactoring be done?
    * Iteration 1: when an impl can run and pass the tests
    * Not an option to stall the refactoring mid-way
    * When can we ask for a date? Or a date for a date?
    * Soon at at point where we can onboard more people from the spec project teams to help with the work
    * Open ReWrite recipes to refactor 
    * Platform TCK call last week.
    * Jan suggested completing the Core Profile TCK first for shorter feedback loop. Volunteers wanted.
* **Implementation that passes everything** 
    * GlassFish close
        * Jakarta Concurrency
            * Passes the not yet released TCK 3.1.1
        * Jakarta Data
            * Scott Stark’s Hibernate Runner for GlassFish
                * Based on annotation processor and Hibernate libs copied to /lib of a GlassFish installation
* **Update of spec text in platform **
    * Spec integration text added to the platform / profile specs?
    * May be platform / profile specific tests needed to be added 
    * Action: Now that the components are done, it is time to focus on the Platform and profile spec updates and tests.
    * Action for all: Read through the changes made since EE 10
        * E.g. 
            * platform change for Persistence?
            * CDI Integration
* **Questions for the TCK Project: **
    * Have the CDI tests been moved from the CDI TCK to the Platform TCK/Web Profile TCK/Core Profile TCK?
        * [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pull/1220](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pull/1220) needs to be moved into the refactor branch
        * Verify with Scott Stark if the work is complete
        * [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/1315](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/1315) is tracking issue for merging master branch Platform tck changes to the tck refactor branch.
    * Will the Persistence tests run on an actual Server/container?
        * Persistence TCK was passed running EclipseLink and Hibernate in Java SE mode. No server of any kind (no GlassFish, no WildFly, etc) was ever even started to pass these tests.
        * Draft PR that runs SE Mode persistence tests from within GlassFish (passed mostly, except for a specific SE test that tests that Jakarta Validation is NOT there)
        * **TCK needs to be updated to support “platform mode”, but is this even possible without a re-release of the TCK???**
