Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-01-23

Present:

* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Kyle Aure (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Adam Yoho (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)

## Agenda and Minutes

### JEA-277-mitigate-gh-platform-820
* Baseline JDK is now JDK 17 as to Red Hat’s request
    * Email from steering committee
        * Question -> must process be followed
        * Wayne mentioned spec process doesn’t require a vote
            * Spec committee will have a vote
                * Progress review needed
            * Some concerns about virtual threads
                * Oracle
    * A compatible component impl must pass their component TCK when run under Java 17 or 21.
        * To ratify a component specification, there must exist an implementation that passes on Java 17. There must also exist an implementation that passes on 21.
        * These need not be the same implementation. There can be one implementation that passes on 17 and a different one that passes on 21.
    * A compatible platform impl must pass the platform TCK when run under 17 or 21.
        * To ratify a platform specification, there must exist an implementation that passes on 17. There must also exist an implementation that passes on 21.
        * These need not be the same implementation. There can be one implementation that passes on 17 and a different one that passes on 21.
    * Discussed the above 
    * Steve Millidge
        * Steve brought it up at the steering committee 
            * Specification committee will discuss it
    * GlassFish community
        * Revert 8.0 branch to JDK 17
        * Anyone against it in this group? -> Nobody against it

### Marlow: Unknown when EE 11 Platform TCK will be ready for Platform/profiles Spec ratification.
* Appclient container support is being worked on now.
* TCK Test vehicles need equivalent.
* Most of the tests need further work for deploying and running on EE 11.
* EE 11 specific tests will be needed
    * Enough such that there is enough testing to be determined.
* We also will need EE 11 Platform/profiles to be implemented that can run on .
* Make list of TCKs that still need to start migration
    * Servlet done
    * Security done
    * Faces done (with including the old tests inside the new build)
    * Persistence need to be done
    * Batch already had standalone 
    * CDI already had standalone
    * Authorization needs to be done
    * WebSocket?
    * Concurrency?
    * EJB?
* Test vehicles
    * Mostly Servlet is important
    * Jakarta Persistence uses Java SE vehicle
        * SE vehicle vs EE vehicle (what’s the exact difference, do we need some definition for that?)
        * Map to an Arquillian container
            * Appclient based test
                * Modification to standard container for Arquillian WildFly
                * Protocol adjustment
                    * Appclient needs two deployment
                    * Formatted log parsing as output
            * Servlet has simplest impl (maps directly) \

* JavaTest 
    * Quite complex
    * No trivial mapping from JavaTest to Junit
    * 

### Rest 4.0 becomes Rest 3.2
* Deprecation of @Context
* Implement an alternative CDI based solution already?
    * Deprecated something needs alternative
    * May be difficult to implement
* Resources available for REST?
    * REST was not able to make 4.0 deadline because of resource issues
    * Hard to say - RestEasy might be CI for REST 3.2
        * James working on that (for RestEasy)
* How much time would REST 4.0 still need?
    * Realizing that in 3.1 @Context would be removed in “some” future release
    * Concern that there was no formal deprecation. Without that formal deprecation there might be problems with implementors
    * Effort not terribly much different
        * Might even be more (supporting two injection implementations)

### Jakarta Data implementations
* Join forces by Red Hat and glassfish community
    * IBM able to chip in?
    * Payara?
    * Tomitribe?
* Chat with Gavin King
    * How much existing code could be used
    * Scott will talk with Gavin on January 24
* Static meta model
    * Might be merged in
* Can implementation use Jakarta Persistence APIs only?
    * Nathan: yes
        * No need to have the Eclipse EE4J implementation done within the EclipseLink project. Could be standalone project using JPA/jakarta Persistence APIs, could even bypass Jakarta Persistence entirely and just use JDBC
    * Or are Hibernate / EclipseLink specifics needed? -> No

### Validation
* Any progress?
* Yes - Scott working on the update
    * Will produce release

### M2 Dates:
* [Jakarta EE 11 Release Plan](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan) 

### CDI 
* The EE portion needs to be rehomed (profile on the platform)
