# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-10-01  
Present:

- James Perkins (Red Hat)  
- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- César Hernández (Tomitribe)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)  
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)  
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Top-of-mind from Ed, Arjan and Jared

* Ed had schedule conflict, so Arjan is running the call today  
* Jared will be on vacation next two weeks so will not be attending  
* TCK refactoring description for marketing team to include in press release.  
  * Link to article from last year from Scott Marlow  
    * Upgrade tools used to make onboarding and maintenance easier  
    * Make general process improvement in the TCK work  
    * 5 years in progress really  
* Status of GlassFish 8.0-JDK17 branch  
  * They are cutting releases from the JDK17 branch whenever they do a milestone release from the 8.0 primary branch.  
  * The “milestone 7” release from the 8.0-JDK 17 branch is suitable for use as the ratifying compatible implementation for EE 11\.  
    * Work remains to be done to pass the platform TCK.  
    * The component TCKs are currently all passing, running under CI, except for data, which is done by hand.  
      * [https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/view/EFTL-Certification-Jobs-11/job/11/job/standalone-tck/job/eftl-jakartaeetck-run-standalone/](https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/view/EFTL-Certification-Jobs-11/job/11/job/standalone-tck/job/eftl-jakartaeetck-run-standalone/)  
* Scott Marlow’s appclient configuration question:  
  * Done

* \[Emily\] Each spec needs to have a TCK challenge template. I have started creating the template but it will be great for the spec team to copy the sample and commit to the spec repo.   
  * Not everything merged yet  
  * ACTION: list of PRs not merged yet  
    * Transactions \- use wombat

### Refactoring Progress Report

* **We have 7 weeks including this one.**  
* [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/12/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/12/views/1)  
  * Switched over to GlassFish for the Persistence TCK  
  * Global change for Jakarta Persistence tests \-\> search and replace  
  * Don’t test app client tests on the web profile  
* Refactoring progress report  
  * 2024-11-18 at 50%. Update from Scott Stark or Scott Marlow  
  * ACTION: Ed to compute new confidence level.  
* Manage risk for  “Switching horses in midstream” for TCK runner  
  * What is the status of others switching over to using the GlassFish runner?  
    * Scott Marlow reports he will try to use the GlassFish runner today or tomorrow, for the JPA tests.

### Jakarta EE 11

* Can we release the Core Profile ahead of the rest of it, with Liberty as the ratifying compatible implementation?  
  * **UPDATE**: Liberty team ran with the Core Profile 11 component spec TCKs and the CoreProfile 10 TCK with Java 17 and things look good.  Still need the CoreProfile 11 TCK to exist with any updates needed for EE 11\.  
    * ACTION: Look at updated TCK tests for Core Profile itself (platform Core Profile tests \-\> 13 tests)  
  * Or any other implementation?   
    * Helidon?  
    * WildFly?  
      * Have component specs been run?  No.  Will look this week. (James Perkins)  
      * Standalone passed  
    * Quarkus?  
      * …  
  * ACTION: Ed to bring this up on the platform-tck mailing list. **DONE**  
* ACTION: Ed: Milestone 5 release of spec including: get that out by mid-October.  
  * [JEA-441](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/441): Ed Spec updates for CDI and Persistence changes.  
    * Meeting minutes collected   
      * Need to be formalized and cleaned up by Ed  
      * ACTION: needs to be done still  
    * Any vendor implemented this yet?  
      * GlassFish still needs to do this (especially parsing persistence.xml and using the qualifiers)  
      * **Tests will still need to be created for this\!**  
        * **Who will do this?**  
          * **Lukas?**  
          * **Gavin?**  
          * **Scott Stark may look at it**  
            * **After we done refactoring for the platform Jakarta Persistence tests**  
          * **(**we may need to have a discussion for EE 12 whether the platform is really the best place)  
      * We could potentially consider dropping the entire feature, since platform spec still needs to be released  
        * Scott Marlow: start discussion on mailing list


### Jakarta EE 10

* Scott will be releasing a new Platform TCK this week for a challenge   
  * [10.0.6](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pull/1553)  
* \[Emily\] Question from Roberto about Jakarta Core Profile zip/jar not in maven central.  
  * MP technical call \-\> Roberto tried to run tests, but zip/jar  
    * Had to download from downloads.eclipse….  
    * Specification committee: release TCKs to Maven  
    * Some component spec TCKs are in maven, but the platform / profile TCKs are not  
    * Ed Bratt: Questions about license used when releasing to maven and how to track with SHA  
      * EFTL vs EPL. Can EFTL be uploaded to Maven Central? Something about Sonatype not allowing EFTL???  
      * Produce jar rather zip, if possible  
    * Core Profile component TCKs are in maven except for annotations so Roberto would have an issue with getting that TCK as well from maven.  
    * ACTION: Check if Signature test can be skipped if using already validated jar

### Jakarta EE 12

* Created an [initial draft](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee12/JakartaEE12ReleasePlan) for a Release Plan for Jakarta EE 12\.  It will be flushed out more over the next few months.  
* Cross cutting issues to consider for EE 12 that were brought up  
  * AppClient deprecation for future removal  
  * Continued platform component TCKs moving to their projects

* Specs should add TCK template for creating challenges

Another example is [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/tree/main/.github/ISSUE\_TEMPLATE](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/tree/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE) but that is over 4 years old and could use an update.
