# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-01-09

Present:

* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* David Matejcek (OmniFish)
* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernández (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Big ticket item for this sprint: EE 11 M02
* [JEA-243](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/243) Release review for all Wave 1, 2, 3, 4 specs: due 2024-01-24.
    * [Ed’s 2023-12-13 email to spec-project-leads](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-spec-project-leads/msg00851.html)
    * I realize this is overshadowed by JEA-83. See below.

### [JEA-83](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/83) Baseline Java SE level for EE 11
* Release co-coordinator thoughts
    * We understand these kinds of things unavoidably surface when you try to crank out releases.
    * Even so, this strikes us as an unfortunate wrinkle.
    * We thought the decision to require SE 21 was one of the most important features of EE 11. This was our understanding before agreeing to take the role of release co-coordinator.
        * Multiple parties confirmed this understanding.
        * Emily also observed few specs are using new 21 features. 
    * Going back on this seems like a big deal. We do not take it lightly.
    * Note: GlassFish 8 at least will require SE 21+
    * We observe there seems to be a historical precedent of fear for whenever a new “big” or LTS release comes out. EE7, EE8, had this.
* Context review
    * Historical issue [gh-platform-553](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/553)
        * Scott characterized this issue as demonstrating that it takes two years for an LTS to be adopted.
        * Can we close this issue and point to 820?
    * Recently opened issue [gh-platform-820](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/820)
        * Red Hat is stating that they are not able to have SE 21 as a baseline for any products at this time.
* Questions to requestor and responses
    * Have you considered alternatives?
    * Why have other implementers not raised this issue?
    * The new wrinkle
        * Because every component spec has its own implementation, and Red Hat **is** the implementation of CDI and Validation, and other downstream implementations need that.
        * Red Hat is seeking clarity: are they allowed to deliver their implementations so that they run on 21 but are compiled on 17?
* Eclipse process expert perspective
    * 
* Other thoughts
    * Rest spec has thoughts on this.
    * Thomas Watson asserted 
        * We are conflating issues.
    * Emily asserts the steering committee has mandated EE 11 specs compile against 21.
        * Thomas observed to implement this mandate, there must be some spec text that binds implementations to this mandate.
* What options can we see right now?
    * It seems we must resolve this issue right away. It blocks EE 11M02.
    * Ivar recommends we should define what we want
        * Then go to the spec committee and say this is what we want.
        * Then go to the steering committee and say we heard what you recommended, but this is what we’re doing.
        * Ed tried to identify the key sub-stakeholders on this
            * Red Hat: Scott
            * IBM
                * Thomas
                * Nathan
                * Emily
            * OmniFish: Arjan
            * Note: 
                * REST has an opinion on this.
                    * Emily observed the REST project, and its veto policy, makes this problematic.
                * MicroProfile has an opinion on this: compile low, support high.
    * Get the plan of record of the spec committee on the minimum SE requirement for EE 11.
        * According to Eclipse practice the Steering Committee can only recommend on the matter of the minimum SE requirement for EE 11.
        * What does the spec committee have power to do on this point?
            * They can fail reviews if they don’t agree with what is done.
            * Practically speaking this functions as a mandate.

### Ratifying Compatible Implementation for EE 11
* Our release plan has 
    * all the component specs completing release review in Q1CY24.
    * The Ratifying Compatible Implementation is not due to be delivered until June/July 2024.
