# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-02-20

Present:

* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* David Matejcek (OmniFish)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Ed Burns (Microsoft)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Kyle Aure (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Perhaps use the Wave review to [discuss the impact](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakarta.ee/pull/1852#issuecomment-1948804603) of the TCK [requirements added last year](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakarta.ee/commit/baec7d38d47a81759c9945a698bb36f62d13a4f4)?
* This does not apply to service releases.
* Scott Marlow requests clarity for some aspects of this matter.
* These [requirements to the TCK process doc impose](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakarta.ee/commit/baec7d38d47a81759c9945a698bb36f62d13a4f4) new requirements on TCKs
    * When the JSONB and JSONP TCKs were extracted from the Platform TCK, they effectively became standalone TCKs.
    * For JSONB and JSONP, for EE 11, the platform tck for Core still is aiming to have additional tests.
* ~~DONE: Ed needs to understand this better.~~
    * Brian Stansberry
        * CDI is not an issue here.
        * Expression Language is the issue.
    * There are two definitions of the word “standalone”
        * Something that can run on Java SE alone
        * Something that is separate from EE, but still runs with EE.
    * Another usage of standalone is “standalone TCK”.
    * DONE: Brian agreed to take this to the platform-dev list and get on the Jakarta EE slack for asynchronous discussion.


### [Jakarta EE 11 Release Plan](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan)

* Wave 1 - 4 release review initiated by 2024-02-29 (leap day) and M2
    * Spec projects
        * Service releases
            * Jakarta JSON Processing*
                * Lukas (see below)
            * Jakarta Mail*
                * Lukas
            * Jakarta Activation*
                * Lukas
            * XML Binding
                * Lukas
        * ~~DONE: Ed needs to indicate that standalone XML Binding and XML web services specifications do need to do a new release to satisfy dependencies from activation. This needs to be indicated on the Release Plan~~
            * Lukas is surprised that XML Binding is now optional and removed from the platform, and we did say that for EE 11 we did remove all optional specifications.
            * [JEA-101](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_sprints/backlog/jakarta-ee-azdo%20Team/jakarta-ee-azdo/CY2024/CY2024Q1/2024-02)
                * Lukas asked, “what about the TCK for things that are impacted by this ‘optional is removed’ thing?”
            * Rest Spec has a dependency on XML Binding.
                * Rest will need a major release to remove XML Binding API dependency
                    * Options
                        * Call it 4.0 and deprecating @Context with alternative function and remove XML Binding API dependency
                        * Call it 4.0 and just remove XML Binding API dependency and no other changes
                        * DONE: Ed to Brief Santiago about this.
        * Jakarta Annotations 3.0*
            * Lukas (see below)
        * Jakarta Expression Language 6.0*
            * Mark Thomas ~~DONE: Arjan to make sure he is aware.~~
                * ~~Arjan to send email to el-dev pointing to Ed’s email reminding spec project leads of impending Wave 1 - 4 Release Review: [https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg04409.html](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg04409.html) ~~
                * Status: there is an M2. IBM and others expressed some concerns with some items
                    * Optional method calls OptionalELResolver
                        * [https://www.eclipse.org/lists/el-dev/2024/Feb/index.html](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/el-dev/2024/Feb/index.html)
        * Jakarta Interceptors 2.2*
            * Scott Stark
        * Jakarta Lang Model 4.1
            * (Part of CDI) Scott Stark
        * Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection 4.1*
            * Scott Stark
    * Actions: Pardon Ed’s ignorance, but exactly who needs to take actions to make this happen?
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * M2 release
            * Outstanding spec text changes
        * Lukas
            * Activation done
            * Mail just needs to update compatible impl, otherwise done.
            * XML Binding PR is done, 
            * SAAJ API and XML WS API jars built and in staging, needed in some JAXB
            * Annotations 3.0 Release Review started! 
            * JSON Processing, no change. 2.1.3 is out.
            * Persistence will be going out this week.
        * Arjan
            * Annotations 3.0.0 (final) stage needed for Interceptors
                * [https://github.com/jakartaee/interceptors/blob/master/api/pom.xml#L91](https://github.com/jakartaee/interceptors/blob/master/api/pom.xml#L91)
                * **(now available: [https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/staging/jakarta/annotation/jakarta.annotation-api/3.0.0/](https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/staging/jakarta/annotation/jakarta.annotation-api/3.0.0/))**
        * Scott
* Wave 5  release review initiated by 2024-03-29
    * Spec projects
        * Jakarta Authorization*
            * Arjan
        * Jakarta Persistence*
            * Lukas
        * Jakarta RESTful Web Services*
            * Santiago
        * Jakarta Server Pages*
            * Mark Thomas and Paul A. Nicolucci
        * Jakarta Servlet*
            * Mark Thomas
        * Jakarta Validation*
            * Scott Stark
        * Jakarta WebSocket*
            * Mark Thomas and Jan Supol
    * Actions: Pardon Ed’s ignorance, but exactly who needs to take actions to make this happen?
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * M3 release
            * Outstanding spec text changes
        * Project lead names
* Wave 6
    * Spec projects
        * Jakarta Authentication*
        * Jakarta Concurrency*
        * Jakarta Faces*
    * Actions: Pardon Ed’s ignorance, but exactly who needs to take actions to make this happen?
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * M4 release
            * Outstanding spec text changes
        * Project lead names
* Wave 7
    * Spec projects
        * Jakarta Security*
        * Jakarta Data*
    * Actions: Pardon Ed’s ignorance, but exactly who needs to take actions to make this happen?
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * M5 release
            * Outstanding spec text changes
        * Project lead names
* Wave 8
    * Platform Projects
        * Jakarta Platform* (including appropriate content formerly in CDI EE)
        * Jakarta Web Profile* (including appropriate content formerly in CDI EE)
        * Jakarta Core Profile*
    * Actions: Pardon Ed’s ignorance, but exactly who needs to take actions to make this happen?
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * Final release
            * Outstanding spec text changes


### Other business

* [JEA-276-mitigate-gh-platform-820](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/276)
    * Can we stop talking about this one?
* Beyond Jakarta EE 11 (if time allows)
    * [Jakarta EE Working Group Brainstorm Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tVaCmbXdAS_Ddn7LMPDelpOfAyozChXL/edit)