# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-09-24

Present:

* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Kyle Aure (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Ed Burns (Microsoft)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
* Emily Jiang (IBM, joined the 2nd half)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Top-of-mind from Ed, Arjan and Jared

* TCK refactoring description for marketing team to include in press release.
* Status of GlassFish 8.0-JDK17 branch
    * Is there a release of this yet?
    * Or must one build it from source?
    * They are cutting releases from the JDK17 branch whenever they do a milestone release from the 8.0 primary branch.
    * The “milestone 7” release from the 8.0-JDK 17 branch is suitable for use as the ratifying compatible implementation for EE 11.
        * Work remains to be done to pass the platform TCK.
        * The component TCKs are currently all passing, running under CI, except for data, which is done by hand.
            * [https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/view/EFTL-Certification-Jobs-11/job/11/job/standalone-tck/job/eftl-jakartaeetck-run-standalone/](https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/view/EFTL-Certification-Jobs-11/job/11/job/standalone-tck/job/eftl-jakartaeetck-run-standalone/)
* Scott Marlow’s appclient configuration question:
    * EE 11 + is there a Jakarta EE portable way for Application Client Containers to identify the client jar in an EAR?
        * Jared found this current text in platform spec, section 8.5.2 #6 \
If the *.jar* file contains a *META-INF/MANIFEST.MF* file with a *Main-Class* attribute, or contains a *META-INF/application-client.xml* file, consider the .jar file to be an application client module.
        * Marlow:  [https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/11/jakarta-platform-spec-11.0-m4#a3179](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/11/jakarta-platform-spec-11.0-m4#a3179) is the current EE 11 text that mentions what Jared found.  Thank you!
            * [https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/jakarta-platform-spec-10.0#a2948](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/jakarta-platform-spec-10.0#a2948) covers the `Bundled Library` requirement:
                * A *.ear* file may contain a directory that contains libraries packaged in JAR files. The *library-directory* element of the *.ear* file’s deployment descriptor contains the name of this directory. If a *library-directory* element isn’t specified, or if the *.ear* file does not contain a deployment descriptor, the directory named *lib* is used. An empty *library-directory* element may be used to specify that there is no library directory. \
 \
All files in this directory (but not subdirectories) with a *.jar* extension must be made available to all components packaged in the EAR file, including **application clients**. These libraries may reference other libraries, either bundled with the application or installed separately, using any of the techniques described herein.
            * ACTION: steps 6 and 7 use the word “consider”. Modify the wording to include “must”.
* [Emily] Each spec needs to have a TCK challenge template. I have started creating the template but it will be great for the spec team to copy the sample and commit to the spec repo. 

### Refactoring Progress Report

* **We have 8 weeks including this one.**
* [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/12/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/12/views/1)
    * Looking at the Refactoring section: for the five items listed as **In review** what remains to be done to get those to **Done**?
    * ACTION: Ed to audit the **In review** tasks to see if they can be moved to **Done.**
* Refactoring progress report
    * 2024-11-18 at 50%. Update from Scott Stark or Scott Marlow
    * ACTION: Ed to compute new confidence level.
* Manage risk for  “Switching horses in midstream” for TCK runner
    * What is the status of others switching over to using the GlassFish runner?
        * Scott Marlow reports he will try to use the GlassFish runner today or tomorrow, for the JPA tests.

### Jakarta EE 11

* Can we release the Core Profile ahead of the rest of it, with Liberty as the ratifying compatible implementation?
    * Or any other implementation? Helidon?
    * The Core Profile TCK does have less than 20 tests, in addition to the component tests.
    * Vendors indicated generally positive expectations to passing the Core Profile TCK.
    * From Jakarta EE Platform spec 2.2:  “[Profiles] are released at completion on their own schedule, independently of any concurrent revision of the platform itself or of other profiles”
    * ACTION: Ed to bring this up on the platform-tck mailing list.
* ACTION: Ed: Milestone 5 release of spec including: get that out by mid-October.
    * [JEA-441](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/441): Ed Spec updates for CDI and Persistence changes.
    * [JEA-248](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/248): Ed Changes in EE 11 section
    * Try to follow the recommendations Ed Bratt gave to Ed Burns over Slack.

### Jakarta EE 12

* Created an [initial draft](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee12/JakartaEE12ReleasePlan) for a Release Plan for Jakarta EE 12.  It will be flushed out more over the next few months.
* Cross cutting issues to consider for EE 12 that were brought up
    * AppClient deprecation for future removal
    * Continued platform component TCKs moving to their projects \

* Specs should add TCK template for creating challenges
    * Another example is [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/tree/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/tree/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE) but that is over 4 years old and could use an update.