# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-04-16

Present:

* Ed Burns (Microsoft)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### [Jakarta EE 11 Release Plan](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan)

### Top-of-mind from Ed and Arjan

* DevNexus and JavaLand wrap ups
    * Sessions
        * JavaLand
            * EE 11 update 150 people
            * Hibernate 6 talk 239 people
            * Jakarta EE CI/CD 60 people
            * Jakarta EE applications talk 67 people
            * Full day workshop on Spring Data JPA 26 people
        * DevNexus
            * Dedicated track, two full days. Ten talks total.
            * Data talk was not that well attended.
            * Track open: Ivar EE 11 update: Small room, more than half full.
            * Track close: Michael Redlich EE 11 update. Small room, almost full.
            * Emily and Brian talk was not that well attended. Around 15. Timing clashed with OpenRewrite AI talk.
    * Discussion and suggestions:
        * Tanja: Come up with snappier titles. Audiences are coming to look for 1. It’s going to be fully functional. 2. How to use it in apps. 3. People are regaining confidence in our technology. 
            * Strong desire for the working group to look into future development. If we do this right, we can get some of those numbers that Spring is getting at conferences like DevNexus.
        * Arjan: 100% of people he talked to knew Spring. ~60% knew of Jakarta EE.
            * Spring and AI was filled to overflowing.
    * Exhibit presence
        * JavaLand
            * Need to get update from how it went with Carmen Delgado.
                * Covered Adoptium, Jakarta EE, MicroProfile
                * Customer feedback: customer requested EAP on 21.
        * DevNexus
            * IBM booth next to MicroProfile booth. 

### Any updates on the below from two weeks ago? \

* _“Jakarta Data ratifying compatible implementation_
    * _Scott Stark_
        * _Jakarta Data TCK: Hibernate based impl is having four falling tests, that make assertions about integration aspects._


### First waves

* Wave 1 - 4 release review initiated by 2024-02-29 (leap day) and M2
* Jakarta EE M2 release
    * PR: [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/729](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/729)
    * Most Artifacts are in Maven Central
        * Jakarta Interceptors 2.2
            * Ballot complete and approved
            * In Maven central
        * Jakarta Annotations 3.0.0  
            * Ballot complete and approved
            * In Maven central
        * Jakarta Expression Language 6.0
            * Ballot complete and approved
            * In Maven central
        * Jakarta CDI 4.1
            * Ballot complete and approved
            * In Maven central
        * Specification artifacts
            * [JEA-364](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/364) PR is ready for review and merging
        * XML Schemas
            * JEA-176 Schemas


### Current wave

* Wave 5 release review initiated by 2024-03-29
    * Jared Anderson accurately observed that the release plan states “release review started” by 2024-03-29. This can be construed to include creating release review issue, mentor assignment, etc.
    * Fully expect to have ballots started for all wave 5 specs this week or next.
        * 16 April: only 2 ballots have started
    * Spec projects
        * Jakarta REST
            * Ballot started, 5 +1’s
        * Jakarta WebSocket*
            * Ballot started, **Ballot withdrawn, Ballot will be restarted**
                * SHA numbers did not match, so we will redo it. 
        * Jakarta Validation*
            * PR,Mentor Spec Review Checklist, almost ready (1 tiny thing open)
                * TCK user guide has a reference to “Bean Validation 3.0”?
                * ACTION: Scott Stark is going to do a TCK re-release to address the GitHub issue raised by IBM (not a challenge).
        * Jakarta Persistence*
            * PR, Mentor Spec Review Checklist (11 things checked)
                * Lukas asked to be able to use Hibernate as the ratifying compatible implementation together with EclipseLink.
                * ACTION: Ivar to start the ballot by the end of the week.
        * Jakarta Pages*
            * PR, Mentor Spec Review Checklist (0 things checked)
                * **ACTION**: Ivar to bring the mentorship matter up at Spec Committee tomorrow.
        * Jakarta Servlet*
            * **PR - tck missing in right location?**
                * **ACTION**: Ivar to bring up the mentorship for this tomorrow.
                * **ACTION**: Arjan will copy TCK to right location
        * Jakarta Authorization*
            * **PR - JDK 17 TCK run missing**
            * ACTION: Spec review checklist can be added to the PR. [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/721](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/721) 
            * Ratifying compatible impl works on 17, but TCK includes an EJB test. So it does not run on Tomcat.
            * ACTION: This is the matter that will finally force Arjan to create a special branch of GlassFish 8 that runs on JDK 17.
    * Service releases
        * XML Web Services
        * Jakarta Tags (previously JSTL) merge into Jakarta Pages (previously JSP)
    * Actions for 2024-03-29 and M3
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * XML Schemas
            * M3 release
            * Outstanding spec text changes
    * Jakarta EE 11 M3 release
        * Final versions of specs in release review
            * DONE: Wait until wave 1-4 released before pushing to Maven central
            * Can stage now
                * ACTION: Ivar to run job to push M3 to staging based on Arjan’s following statement:
                    * Arjan states that all of them are already in staging.
            * GlassFish 8 M4 incorporates the Wave 5 specs
                * [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/releases/tag/8.0.0-M4](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/releases/tag/8.0.0-M4)


### Next waves

* Marlow: Can we have milestone releases for EE 11 Platform TCK artifacts?
    * Any issue with milestone TCK releases using EFTL license?
        * Yes, there is an issue. Milestone releases must not have the EFTL license.
    * Can we release TCK Artifacts directly to a public Maven Repository?
        * Yes.
    * Can we push milestone releases of TCK Artifacts directly to a public Maven Repository?
        * Yes.
* ACTION: Update release plan to change 2024-04-27 to 2024-04-26.
* Concurrency
    * In RC2
    * This is what they intend to use for the 2024-04-26.
    * Regarding the meaning of “virtual = true”? On 17: it is “ignore”
* Data
    * Status update from Nathan
        * Things are currently in a more settled down state
            * April 19th target: finish the query language, TCK, impl is passing the TCK.
            * ACTION: Ed to check in with Nathan on Monday 2024-04-22 to see his confidence level regarding the 2024-04-19 target.


### Other business

* Marlow: Not really a platform concern but still mentioning for sharing knowledge [https://github.com/jakartaee/specification-tools/blob/master/promotion/promote-release.sh](https://github.com/jakartaee/specification-tools/blob/master/promotion/promote-release.sh) doesn’t seem to add the EFTL license to TCK archives.
    * Should it?
    * No, because the promote script can not automatically add the EFTL license to the zip.
        * Ed Bratt states this is because doing so would modify the SHA sum. Furthermore, if the contents of the zip file is changed, it would invalidate the CCRs based on proposed-final TCKs.
* Batch
    * Question about spec update? in response to EE 10 TCK challenge [https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakarta.ee-spec/msg03260.html](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakarta.ee-spec/msg03260.html)  (which we’re waiting to resolve to release the TCK update supporting Java 21 for EE 11)



