# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-02-06

Present:

* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* David Matějček (OmniFish)
* Ondro Mihalyi (OmniFish)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Riva Philip (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Adam Yoho (IBM)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Majid Mostafavi (IJUG)
* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Emily Jiang (IBM, joined 38mins late)

Share comments suggestions to [https://purl.oclc.org/NET/edburns/contact](https://purl.oclc.org/NET/edburns/contact) 

## Agenda and Minutes

### [JEA-276-mitigate-gh-platform-820](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/276)
* [JEA-294](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/294) track ballot
* Ivar will close the ballot at COB Wednesday 2024-02-07, after the world finishes with Tuesday 2024-02-06.
* [JEA-279](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/279)- Implementation help from Red Hat, or anyone else, for standalone Data impl to use in GlassFish and others: status? 
    * [Slack link](https://eclipsefoundationhq.slack.com/archives/CK4UW9DPS/p1706727503332949?thread_ts=1705429437.689559&cid=CK4UW9DPS) to appeal for help.
* [JEA-298-condition GLASSFISH_8_17_21](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/298)
    * Big schedule risk: GlassFish committers started a vote in supporting JDK 17 / reverting. Unified opposition to go back to JDK 17.
    * [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/discussions/24790](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/discussions/24790)

### [JEA-275-EE11-M02](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/275) Date review
* [Jakarta EE 11 Release Plan](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan)
    * For release review, you need a TCK and a compatible implementation.
    * Specs are welcome to go earlier than these dates, if desired.
    * Wave 1, 2, 3, 4 specs release review initiated by 2024-02-29
        * Jakarta Annotations*
            * Common annotations TCK still not in hand. Will hear more on the platform TCK call tomorrow.
        * Jakarta JSON Processing* (service release)
        * Jakarta Expression Language*
        * Jakarta Interceptors*
        * Jakarta Lang Model*
        * Jakarta Activation* (service release)
        * Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection*
        * Jakarta Mail* (service release)
        * Discussion notes
            * Will the EE 10 TCKs for the service releases be refactored TCKs?
                * ~~ACTION: Ed to respond to thread and share opinion that for component specs that only do a service release, we should not be using the refactored TCKs. Just stick with the same, non-refactored, ones for EE10.~~
    * After this, we will have M2.  Other specs are encouraged to do a refresh of what they did for M1, with any updates.
    * Wave 5 specs release review initiated by 2024-03-29
        * Jakarta Authorization*
            * Has made significant progress, API is in good shape.
            * TCK needs to be updated
                * New tests within progress
                * Existing tests within platform TCK
        * Jakarta Persistence*
            * EclipseLink status? Dmitry indicates it’s in good shape.
            * Need to have a release for M2.
            * Dmitry will pass to Lukas to get a release both for GlassFish and for EE11 M2.
        * Jakarta RESTful Web Services*
            * REST 3.2?
                * ~~ACTION: Ed to request Santiago to join these platform calls.~~
                * Group has still not decided to pursue this 2024-03-29.
                * Need to decide if we can use RestEasy instead of Jersey as the compatible implementation.
                * Jan Supol is not sure if the proposals in 3.2 are implementable. Some of the matters are impl details. 
                    4. There are some outstanding questions, Dmitry requested other REST team members to follow up on Jan Supol’s questions.
        * Jakarta Server Pages*
        * Jakarta Servlet*
            * Outstanding issues, but very likely not going to be addressed in EE 11
                * ServletContainerInitializer ordering.
        * Jakarta Validation*
            * Same as last week.
        * Jakarta WebSocket*
    * After this, we will have M3.  Other specs are encouraged to do a refresh of what they did for M2, with any updates.
    * Wave 6, 7 specs release review initiated by 2024-04-27
        * Jakarta Data*
        * Jakarta Concurrency*
            * Concurrency spec is now blocked on adding support for Java SE 17 because some participants are maintaining that the decision has not yet been made by the Platform to require support of Java SE 17.
            * Nathan: some issues for 17
                * Waiting for the ballot to close.
                * Participants are challenging the need to support it.
                * ~~ACTION: put out an official statement on the support for 17.~~
                * Three options currently on the table:
                    5. Virtual: true is simply treated as false if you are on 17.
                    6. Virtual: true request will fail if running on 17.
                    7. Behavior is left vendor specific.
        * Jakarta Faces*
            * Downgraded to 4.1, not a major release. Work done last December. Still need to pass the TCK.
        * Jakarta Security*
            * Builds on authorization, add the CDI native version of that work. Permission store concept.
            * Emily observes the spec prose has not been updated.
            * Arjan responds: the API and Javadoc is where the bulk of the normative assertions are made.
            * Adam Yoho: No update on JWT in Security. It’s in the bridge spec.
        * Jakarta Authentication*
    * After this, we will have M4.  Other specs are encouraged to do a refresh of what they did for M3, with any updates.
* Arjan: Multi-release JAR. Seeking reference to commit

### Beyond Jakarta EE 11 (if time allows)
* [Jakarta EE Working Group Brainstorm Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tVaCmbXdAS_Ddn7LMPDelpOfAyozChXL/edit)