# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2024-05-21

Present:

* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Kyle Aure (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Jimmy Wu (IBM)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Angelo Rubini (community)


## Agenda and Minutes

### Top-of-mind from Ed and Arjan

* Data impl for GlassFish [8.0-JDK17](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish/tree/8.0-JDK17).
    * [https://github.com/jakartaredhat/hibernate-data-tck-gf/issues/1](https://github.com/jakartaredhat/hibernate-data-tck-gf/issues/1)
    * An example runner for GF/Hibernate that passes 90/99 tests.
* Ed is taking DTO this week. Arjan to run the meeting.
* Ed will be in transit toward DevTalks Romania next week. Ask Arjan to run the meeting.
* Ivar will be at JPrime next week.
* Please review the draft for the upcoming [Cloud Native Java Technical Survey](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l3Yscex_5cANg4Uyjj4dFGLXWPBoPfksWkPV_5IOUZU/edit#heading=h.tb29h4fww2je)
* Jakarta EE 12 early planning (_not all ours to decide, but we can look at opinions and ideas_)
    * Any ideas already?
        * Deemphasize (deprecate?) JNDI / XML in Concurrency (?)
            * Bite the bullet; prepare to fully base on CDI?
            * Could be an option - many things do reference JNDI names, like async annotation and the resource definitions 
        * Statement regarding EJB (?)
            * Emily; long list… 
        * REST resources based on CDI
        * Merge Pages (JSP) and Tags (JSTL)
        * Merge Interceptors into CDI
        * Stateless entity manager in Jakarta Persistence
        * @Lock and @Pooled (@MaxConcurrency)  in Jakarta Concurrency
        * Permission store in Jakarta Security
        * Separate API in Jakarta Faces
        * Jakarta HTTP spec for REST and servlet to depend on
            * Common HttpRequest for Servlet and REST in Core Profile
        * Jakarta QL spec to be shared by Data and Persistence
        * Big changes around Unsafe/reflection coming in Java 26. May need some kind of trusted provider SPI for application server/middleware frameworks. Related to JPMS JEPS:
            * [JEP 471: Deprecate the Memory-Access Methods in sun.misc.Unsafe for Removal](https://openjdk.org/jeps/471)
            * [JEP 472: Prepare to Restrict the Use of JNI](https://openjdk.org/jeps/472)
        * Subject.doAs and Subject.getSubject are replaced with Subject.callAs and Subject.current in Java 18 as part of Java security manager change.  Update / verify if the APIs are used.  Subject.getSubject fails hard in Java 23 when not using security manager.
        * Deprecate REST @Context with an alternative added to the spec
        * … 
    * Cadence
        * Jakarta EE 10: 2022-09-13
        * Jakarta EE 11: 2024-07-31 (?)
        * _(JDK 25         : 2025-09-16)_
        * Jakarta EE 12: 2026-05-31 (??)
            * 2 years seem to be most requested 
            * Spend much time in that - holds
            * LTS + 6/9 months
    * Will we set minimum JDK to 
        * JDK 25 (latest LTS)
        * JDK 25 (latest LTS) + JDK 21 (latest LTS -1)
        * JDK 25 (latest LTS) + JDK 21 (latest LTS -1) + JDK 17 (Quarkus, Spring)
        * …

### Previous wave

* Wave 5 release review initiated by 2024-03-29
    * Spec projects
        * **Jakarta Authorization **
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed \

        * **Jakarta Persistence***
            * Ballot passed and API available in Maven Central
            * CCR approved and closed
        * **Jakarta Validation***
            * Ballot passed
            * **API 3.1.0 NOT YET IN MAVEN CENTRAL**
                * **Scott Stark will do the release**
        * **Jakarta WebSocket***
            * Ballot started 2024-05-08. Should complete on 2024-05-22.
            * 9 +1s
        * **Jakarta Servlet***
            * Ballot started 2024-05-21. Should complete on 2024-06-04. \

        * **Jakarta Pages***
            * “I think that is all the requested changes completed. Pages 4.0.0 is (hopefully) ready for the release ballot now.” [PR-723](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/723#issuecomment-2102425790).
                * Ivar and Werner to discuss and start ballot 2024-05-15.
                * **ACTION**: WERNER \

        * 
    * Service releases
        * XML Web Services
            * Published last week
        * Tag Libraries
            * Need to update dependencies.
                * Need to be done by Paul Nicolucci.
                * Needs TCK challenge [https://github.com/jakartaee/tags/issues/255](https://github.com/jakartaee/tags/issues/255) also to be completed for Java 21
    * Actions for 2024-03-29 and M3
        * Ed, Ivar, Arjan
            * M3 release
                * Lingering, in staging
                * Waiting: servlet and pages and websocket


### Current wave

* Wave 6, 7 specs release review initiated by 2024-04-27
    * Spec projects
        * **Jakarta Faces***
            * PR Filed  [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/738](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/738)
            * CCR for JDK 21 and JDK 17 added
            * Ballot started 2024-05-21. Should complete on 2024-06-04.
            * Speedbump 
                * Ticket filed. See [JEA-378 ](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/378)for link to GitLab ticket.
        * **Jakarta Security***
            * PR Filed [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/741](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/741)
            * CCR for JDK 21 and JDK 17 added
            * Should be ready \

        * **Jakarta Authentication***
            * PR Filed [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/735](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/735)
            * CCR for JDK 21 added and JDK 17 added
            * Should be ready \

        * **Jakarta Concurrency***
            * [Release review PR](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/733) created
            * Seeking help: scope challenges
                * Need to put the clarification in the platform spec. 
                    * If the “definition annotation” includes qualifiers, they can only be put on a bean that CDI can see.
                * Petr and Arjan to test 
                    * ✅ [https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/491](https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/491)   
                    * ✅ [https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/494](https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/494)
                        * Need to do impl for ScheduledAsync.
                        * Two PRs forthcoming
                            * Payara
                            * Concurro
                        * Nathan, Arjan, Petr agreed that the concurrency ballot can start a week later than planned to accommodate this request. **This is the last request, any other issues that arise will not make the EE 11 version of the concurrency spec.**
                        * Arjan observes that for consistency, we should strive for parity between XML and annotation programming models.
                    * We have outstanding challenges, but will **NOT** be holding up the release / ballot for that one. Will be addressed via a challenge.
            * Can this ballot now be started?
                * **YES**
                * Last week we said we would start the ballot this week. Is the ballot ready to start? Have all the changes suggested by Ed Bratt been addressed?
                * CCR update is needed?
                    * Nathan: CCR is updated
                    * Ed Bratt: Need to have commitment that everything is ready \

        * **Jakarta Data*** (release review initiated by 2024-05-31)
            * PR final:  [https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/737](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/737) 
            * And what about the ratifying compatible implementation in GlassFish?
                * Hack on EclipseLink
                    * ACTION: Ed to check with Gavin about how easily extracted is the Jakarta Data impl they have done in Hibernate so we can put it in EclipseLink?
                * Use JNoSQL
                    * Ed asked Otavio about this on Monday 2024-05-20.
                * Hibernate development
                    * Scott Stark created the runner
                    * 9 out of 99 are failing, all due to SQL failures
                        * Out of bound on Derby
                        * Derby dialect fails
                        * May use H2
                        * ACTION: arjan to add security H2 DB example from the security TCK to the data issue 1
    * Platform ballot
        * Risks
            * Finish the platform / profile TCKs
            * Implementation that passes everything 
                * GF close
                * Jakarta Data implementation
            * 5 spec that still need to start their ballot 
            * Update of spec text in platform 
                * Spec integration text added to the platform / profile specs?
                * May be platform / profile specific tests needed to be added 

