# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-07-28

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Gabriel Bussolo (Individual)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Alessio Soldano (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Kenji Kazumura (Kenji Kazumura)
- Guillermo González de Agüero (Individual)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)

## Agenda

### [Kevin] EFSL Update Correction

There was a miscommunication with the EMO and there should not be any updates to the EFSL wording itself. I have closed the Issues where there was no activity.  But, some of the Projects (including the Platform) have already made the requested changes.  I’m checking with the EMO to see if these changes have to be reverted before Jakarta EE 9 completes.

* Minutes
   * Kevin is still working with the EMO (Wayne) to see if we have to revert anything for Jakarta EE 9.  In the meantime, nothing is being requested of the Projects.

### [Kevin] Jakarta EE 9 Specification  PRs

* Excellent progress on the creation and pre-reviewing of the PRs.
* https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pulls 
* Trying to get some of the early ones through the ballot process, hopefully this week…
* Minutes

   * Everybody has access to the repo and can create/comment on PRs.  Spec Committee members are required for checklists and merging.

### [Werner/Kevin] Jakarta EE 9 Module Name Analysis

* https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g8jYG0JixO3wzZkpeyU1LMIQRhbnZ76kGtdMFE8mieE/edit#gid=0
* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LAAHKPJyREky9fEKv0xFd9IRDgXB58It53ryfyrNPtg/edit# 
* Proposed resolution - Option F (recommendation from Spec Committee)

If you have an existing Automatic Module Name (MANIFEST) defined from Java EE 8 / Jakarta EE 8, update it to use the `jakarta` prefix. Do not create new Automatic Module Names for Jakarta EE 9.  If you have an existing `module-info.class` defined from Java EE 8 / Jakarta EE 8, update it to use the `jakarta` prefix. Do not create new module-info.class files for Jakarta EE 9. If you have Nothing related to Module Names in your API, then leave it as-is.

* Minutes
   * Two actions - Update FAQ for Release Plan, and update Platform Spec with our direction for Module Names for Jakarta EE 9.
   * [BJ] Really need to test any Module Name definitions -- thus another reason to wait until we have a JPMS strategy before introducing any new module names.

### [cesar] Do we have any update for the issue mailing list search has? https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=563173

* Minutes:
   * Ivar will follow up when he gets back from vacation.

No additional agenda items were submitted, so we cut it off after 35 mins.
