# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-05-19

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (WTP)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Werner Keil (Committer)
- Kenjij Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)

## Agenda

### Feedback on searchable mailing lists [IG]

Bug reported: https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=563173

### Milestone release targeted for June [KWS]

* Development Complete: June 12, Announce: June 26 (tentative dates)
* Content: Specification, API, TCK, and CI (Milestone or RC functionality)
* **Each Spec Project needs to identify their deliverables via a PR** 
* Example:  https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/150 (Dependency Injection)
  * https://deploy-preview-150--jakartaee-specifications.netlify.app/specifications/dependency-injection/2.0/ 

Minutes:
* Steve asked how to get the deliverables onto the Eclipse download area
  * Scott indicated he would send out some instructions.  A Jenkins CI build is required to accomplish this.
* How and who should update the pom files for Glassfish and API?
  * PRs are welcome and appreciated!  But, the Milestone deliverables will be monitored by owners as well...
* TCK results?  Individual Spec Projects and overall Platform?
  * Scott Stark will experiment with DI and see how an individual Spec Project could easily communicate their TCK results.  Individual TCK access and results are not a requirement for the Milestone release - nice to have.
  * At a minimum, we will document the overall Platform TCK results for the Milestone release.
  * Current TCK status… All javax to jakarta namespace changes have been completed for the non-pruned technologies.  Issues have been created for the remaining work for the non-pruned technologies (looking for owners for some of these).  Jenkins builds are also being created to help with the TCK generation and consumption of [Glassfish](https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/job/build-glassfish/).

### EFSL Updates [KWS]

* Each Spec Project has an Issue outlining the desired changes
* Discussion:  https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg01775.html 

Minutes:
* Just an FYI.  Let people know to monitor that mailing list discussion and see how the Spec Project’s usage of the EFSL might be affected.
