# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-01-28

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Bill Shannon, Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Steve Millidge (Payara) 
- Alessio Soldano (Red Hat)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Edwin Amoakwa
- Nathan Erwin (Eclipse Contributor)

## Agenda

### Backward compatibility for descriptor schemas [BS]

Alternatives (https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg01400.html):

1. Support for Jakarta EE 8 and earlier schemas is *optional* in  Jakarta EE 9 products.
Votes: 0


2. Support for Jakarta EE 8 and earlier schemas is *required* in   Jakarta EE 9 products.
Votes: 0


3. Support for Jakarta EE 8 *but not* earlier schemas is *required* in Jakarta EE 9 products; support for schemas earlier than Jakarta EE 8  is *optional* in Jakarta EE 9 products.
Votes: 7

**DECISION:** Option #3 is the desired direction. Need to widely communicate to the community. Also need to update Platform Spec accordingly. Steve volunteered to start a PR for the Platform Spec.


### Clarification around the optional JDK 8 Support for Jakarta EE 9

Discussed: TCK compatibility rule or included in specification? Raise to specification committee?

**Decided** to treat it as a TCK compatibility item, and not included in the specification. Bill will draft a TCK rule to cover this case.

Must be communicated to the TCK team that the TCK must work on both JDK 8 and 11.
Different signature files must be generated for 8 and 11. 


### Spec version maven plugin problem [SM]

https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish-spec-version-maven-plugin/issues/14 

Until this bug has been fixed, it is ok to comment out the plugin to be able to release RCx versions, e.g. 1.0.0-RC1.

Should this and other plugins move to this project from GlassFish?

The target project must have committers able to work on the plugin.
Suggestion to create a Jakarta Tools project for the plugins and tools.
A lot of these are currently in the GlassFish project.
Decided to move this discussion to the PMC. 
Ivar will add it to the PMC’s agenda.


### EJB project is looking quiet what can be done to move on  [SM]

Kevin will check with David. (**done**)
Need a release plan for EJB 4.0 by Feb 1.  
Need basic API updates for Glassfish.  
And, need corresponding changes for TCK.

### Jakarta EE Ambassadors Offer of Assistance [SM]

Encourage projects to identify tasks with labels indicating which are easy to grab for community members. 

- Updating specifications 
- Tutorial
- A first cup…
- Cargo Tracker

Use the next Jakarta Update call to give a “getting started guide”. Invite Ambassadors and other community members.
