# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-05-12

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Carlos de la rosa (eclipse committer)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (WTP)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)
- Rhuan Rocha (Red Hat)
- Werner Keil (Individual)

## Agenda

### Update on glassfish.org [IG]

* https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=562417
  
Minutes:
  * Working on getting glassfish.org up and pointing to the GlassFish project page.
  * Proposed location for deployment document type definition files (DTDs): https://glassfish.org/dtds/glassfish-web.xml

### Discussion channels on Slack [KWS]

* #jakartaee-tck ( https://eclipsefoundationhq.slack.com/archives/C0131MLD538 )
* #jakartaee-platform ( ??? )
* We had previous complaints about Slack channels not being searchable.
* We cannot do official communications on Slack channels
* Only use Slack for informal conversations
* Searchable mailman mailing lists? 
   * Question for Eclipse: Ivar
   * Supposedly, there is a search mechanism (but may not be as reliable as we would like or need…)
   * Need an Issue for EF to track a better search mechanism
* Invitation link to “Jakarta EE Development” workspace:  https://join.slack.com/t/eclipsefoundationhq/shared_invite/zt-crh7mheq-3on2tophEuvQTUGidEAWlg 
* https://mattermost.eclipse.org/ might be an alternative to Slack, but it is a single large “team” across all of Eclipse
* Check with EF about a paid subscription to Slack...

### Jakarta EE 9 Milestone Release in June ??? [KWS]

* Too much work left for GA release in June
* But, what about an M1 (Milestone) release in June?
  * Shows the tremendous progress we have made
  * Provides a “platform” for stack products and frameworks (IDEs, frameworks, etc)
  * Better understanding of where we sit for GA in the fall

Minutes:
* Steve M (Glassfish) agrees that a Milestone release would be good
* Tomcat 10 has already started Milestone releases in support of Jakarta EE 9
* Many of these “stack products” can make progress today with the APIs themselves
* Scott M (TCK) - how much of the TCK needs to be passing before we release a Milestone?  Certain TCK tests?  Or, some percentage of passing?
* Kevin- would prefer to just document the current state of Glassfish and TCK when the Milestone is released (Cesar)
* Content ?
  * Updated APIs
  * Updated Schemas on web site
  * Updated Platform and Web Profile Spec
  * Updated Component Specifications?
  * Updated Glassfish
  * Updated Component Compatible Implementations?
  * Updated Platform TCK
  * Updated Component TCKs?

Minutes:
* Early versions of TCKs normally reflect the updates that are being done in the Specs
* Collecting component Specs, TCKs, and CIs (milestones) is a good idea
* Need to pick dates towards end of June (development dates, marketing dates, etc)
