# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-12-15

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Jonathan Coustick (Payara)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
- Werner Keil (Individual)

## Agenda and Minutes

### [IG, EJB] Web page updates needed

* Update EE 9 Platform web-page 
* Set up new page for 9.1
* Revise the generic Platform page 
* Minutes
  * Kevin volunteered to clean it up and add a page for 9.1


### Jakarta EE 9.1

* https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yFfD0ezjr1QFM3onGK76E3RhItN5FFEfhz12VA5wGYQ/edit 
* Walked through the document
* Discussed API source level. APIs must be compiled to Java SE 8 
* **Decision:** The goal of 9.1 is to NOT release new API artifacts. We are open for specs to do minor updates, thus release a new artifact if they have to in order to support Java SE 11. 
* **DECISION:** Any API team that wants to release a new version **MUST** engage in a plan review by the end of January 2021.
* https://www.eclipse.org/lists/ejb-dev/msg00152.html asks what EJB SPEC changes are needed for JDK11 support
* Compatible implementations
  * Discussed if it is enough that an implementation certifies on Java SE 11 and whether we need an implementation that certifies both with Java SE 8 and Java SE 11
  * Verify with the GlassFish team if GF will be able to certify on both Java SE 8 and Java SE 11
  * Need to update the spec document so it is reflected there if it is ok that a single release does not need to certify on both
* Module names
  * The naming conventions stay as they were for 9.0
  * No requirement for changes for 9.1
* Spec project point releases
  * Deadline: end of January
  * Requirements for plan review
  * Communicate to spec committee tomorrow (Wed Dec 16)
  * Ivar will write a blog post about it. Please help amplify in all channels!

### Marlow: more about TCK Splitting

* Batch, Servlet, JAX-RS, JSONP teams have been discussing maintaining a SPEC API level TCK.  This discussion is about how Platform level guidelines (if any) are shared.
* How should Platform SPEC level requirements be covered by new (SPEC API) TCKs?
  * What is the minimal amount of new process required for SPEC API/Platform SPEC teams
    * Does each EE release plan have to list the Platform SPEC requirements for new SPEC API TCKs?  
  * Where is the best place to discuss the Platform SPEC requirements for new TCKs?
    * On the Platform SPEC mailing list?
    * Or on a https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues issue?
  * Should new TCKs have common configuration/setup to reduce the burden on implementors having to setup TCKs?
  * Started collecting (greppable) Platform TCK test information
    * https://gist.github.com/scottmarlow/0e31e5256507ad0e5c78b3f274d8d4a7


* ### Jakarta EE NEXT

* [IG] Discussion topic: Profiles
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1THhvjZazSFpDE95rqtcdQXgBQxa-B3aMFksq8xKJo08/edit 
* Minutes:
    Did not get to this topic. To be revisited next meeting.

### General

* This was the last meeting in 2020. See you all in 2021!