# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-08-25

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (Eclipse WTP)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Martijn Verburg (London Java Community - observing)

## Agenda

### [IG] Specification Ballot Status

* Ready for ballot:
https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aballot
* Wave 1:
https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Awave%3A1
* Wave 2:
https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Awave%3A2
* SPEC team should let Jakarta Platform TCK team know when their TCK should be promoted via “Review and Promote issue”
any subsequent/additional TCK changes requires incrementing the respective TCK version (and further promotion of the updated TCK).
* Minutes
   * Spec PR Checklist:  https://github.com/jakartaee/specification-committee/blob/master/spec_finalization_checklist.md 

### [WK] Module name revisit

* Minutes
   * Couple of outliers.  These projects have been notified of the module name expectations for Jakarta EE 9.  If the projects decide to buck the trend and still define module names for Jakarta EE 9, then they will most likely have to change in a future release.

### [WK] Other Folks joining this call and maybe Committee calls?

* Or potentially recording some of these calls
* Minutes
   * The platform calls are open and the minutes are openly available, so no recording is needed at the moment.

### [SM] GlassFish Update

* Steve provided an update on the status of the tests for GlassFish. 69 tests currently failing, so we are getting close to a full pass of the TCK for GlassFish.
* Dmitry will take a look at the issues with JSON-P when integrated into GlassFish
* Help with the webservices12 test suite is appreciated
* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/wiki/Jakarta-EE-9-TCK-results is wip to show results
* Scott Marlow to send email that Platform TCK contributors can freely run as many TCK jobs as are needed.
* Just need to avoid running multiple concurrent TCK test runs at the same time, to avoid system stability problems that cause TCK failures.
