# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-06-30

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Thiago Henrique Hüpner (Individual)
- Gurkan Erdogdu (ManageCat)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (WTP)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Jason Mehrens (Individual)
- Ryan Cuprak (Dassault)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)

## Agenda

### Acknowledge Bill Shannon [IG]

Decided to add a blank page after the title page with the text “In Memory of Bill Shannon” or similar in addition to mentioning in the acknowledgments section - Ivar will create a PR

### Jakarta EE 9 Schedule Discussion

* https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/jakartaee9/JakartaEE9 
* Very aggressive schedule
* Looking for input on the schedule’s doability (dates, content, vacations, etc)
* Do we need another Milestone for Java 11?  Just an idea, communicate thoughts via mailing list.
* Ed volunteered to compare Jakarta EE 8 APIs with Jakarta EE 9 APIs just to ensure that we’re only introducing API changes that are expected.
* Ed asked about communicating the need for final Specifications before the final TCK and CI are ready.  Or, at least communicate that the TCK and CI can continue to evolve after the Specification document is finalized.  Kevin will communicate this aspect.

### EF vacation plans for first week of August

* Ivar will touch base with Kevin to define coverage for the meetings.

### Thiago submitted a question about an application server supporting a native image (GraalVM)

* Dmitry welcomed the effort, but warned that it may be a difficult task.
* For example, CDI (as currently defined) relies on a dynamic, late binding processing.  This is difficult to achieve with a native image.

### Gurkan asked about the future maintenance of Glassfish.  For example, would Glassfish 5.x or 6.x be maintained after the major Jakarta EE releases?

* The Glassfish development team should be brought into this discussion, probably via the Glassfish dev mailing list.
* Gurkan asked about how to become a committer on the Glassfish process.  Ivar and Dmitry volunteered to help him out with this process.

### The glassfish.org domain
* https://glassfish.org now redirects to https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/glassfish/
* Ivar will check with EF webdev team if we can set up at proper DNS record to be able to deep link to e.g. glassfish.org/download
