# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2023-01-17

Present:

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* David Matějček (OmniFish)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Scott Kurz (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Werner Keil (Individual)
* Cesar Hernandez

## Agenda and Minutes

**“Resolved, the Steering Committee recommends that the Jakarta EE Working Group begin planning for the next Jakarta EE 11 release as proposed in the [Jakarta EE 11 Narrative Presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rugEgECY-ghIIbYlsBtlDb0CTk4aeOFG/edit#slide=id.p1), with the following high level guidelines:**

*** Target Java version 21**
*** Target GA date Q1 2024**
*** Priorities**
    ***Unified APIs improving Developer Experience**
    ***New Specifications**
    ***Build on the Latest Java**
    ***Enable Community Contribution**

**These guidelines are provided to encourage a common community direction for Jakarta EE 11.“** 

### Discuss implications of the above resolution for Jakarta EE 11
* Release Manager needed?
* Need to check with MP for the Java 21 requirement?
    * MP wanted to stay on Java 8 !!???
        * MP 6.1 may support Jakarta 9 (supports Java 8)
    * MP is not considered a blocker for Jakarta moving to Java 21, just need to understand the impact here for Jakarta.
    * Upcoming CNF4J call to discuss Java 21 requirement?
* TCK teams ok with the release date?
    * Need to remove usage of Security Manager
    * Start work early with Java 18,19,20
* Unified APIs improving Developer Experience
    * —> Rest and Servlet are two different ways to “do HTTP”, not having much of a unified API, making things hard for Security etc
* If there are reasons we cannot move to 21 we can go back to the Steering committee to change.

### Unified APIs improving Developer Experience
* REST moving to mini-frameworks during JAX-RS (its own security, its own injection, its own HTTP handling, its own MVC, etc)  More to a more unified API experience.
* REST removed their injection system (CDI instead).
* Jakarta Security for the core profile?
    * Need for a lower level http request specification

### Enable Community Contribution
* How can we make it easier to contribute
* Improve naming conventions
* Refactor the TCK to make it easier to find where to write tests and easier to run tests.
    * What is the state of the TCK refactoring?
    * 10.0.1 target for refactoring and another branch for 11.
        * Need for doing 10.0.1 release for fixing security issues.

### TCK challenges
* [https://github.com/jakartaee/faces/issues/1757](https://github.com/jakartaee/faces/issues/1757)
    * Not accepted yet. Thread on the mailing list did not move things forward.
    * Will look for input/conclusion by next week as a deadline.
* New Security TCK coming soon? 

### Collect questions to Poll the individual specification projects
* Get input from the direction set by Steering committee for EE 11
* Do the spec teams have the necessary resources to meet the objectives for EE 11?
* Are there specifications that are important to the platform that are at risk? 

### Prepare for release planning
* Planning Milestones for Component Specs, i.e.
    * TCK passed on Java SE 21
    * TCK is extracted to Component Spec
    * Javadoc for new content in the milestone complete
    * Specification updated for new content in the milestone complete
    * TCK updated for new content in the milestone complete
    * API jar updated and published for new content in the milestone complete 

### Preparation for the next Jakarta EE Platform Architecture Call [Feb]

### Who can address [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-api/issues/97](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-api/issues/97)?
* Ivar??