# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2023-11-28
Present:

* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Anand N K (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Adam Yoho (IBM)
* Vignesh (IBM)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Tanja Obradovic (EclipseFoundation)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Werner Keil (Committer/Ambassador)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* John Clinga (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Milestone 1 Status
* Jakarta Annotations 3.0.0-M1 
* Jakarta Authorization 3.0.0-M1 (staging)
* Jakarta Authentication 3.1.0-M1 (staging)
* Jakarta Concurrency 3.1.0-M1
* Jakarta Data 1.0.0-M1
* Jakarta Expression Language 6.0.0-M1
* Jakarta Interceptor 2.2.0-RC1
* Jakarta Pages 4.0.0-M1
* Jakarta Persistence 3.2.0-M1
* Jakarta Servlet 6.1.0-M1
* Jakarta WebSocket 2.2.0-M1
* Jakarta Faces 5.0-M1
* Jakarta CDI 4.1.0-M1 \

* What is the status for the remaining?
    * Jakarta Security - in progress - 4.0.0-M1
    * Jakarta Validation? Any progress? - 3.1.0-M1
        * No records for M1, just dependency updates
        * Records will be done for M2
    * Jakarta Restful Web Services - 4.0.0-M1
    * Jakarta Faces?
        * Tons of progress, but no release of 5.0.0-M1 yet
        * If nobody does, Arjan will do it
        * **DONE**
    * Jakarta CDI? 4.1.0.Alpha1 available. Need a 4.1.0-M1 - **DONE**
        * Issues with the restructuring review
            * What are the requirements exactly?
            * Specs that have a Java SE part and a Java EE part
                * CDI itself (Special case)
                    * Maybe remove dependency on Transactions?
                    * Dependency is marked as **provided** in the pom file 
                * Persistence
                * Servlet
                * Transactions
                    * ACTION: PR for Transactions to split CDI depending features
                    * ACTION: PR for new CDI version - it is currently latest 3.0 micro version
                    * Dependency is marked as **provided** in the pom file so is there a change needed?
            * Subtle difference between “dependency” and “integration”
            * Compile time dependency -> clear, really “dependency”
            * Behavior dependency -> maybe “integration”
    * Jakarta Interceptor 2.2.0-RC1 Need a M1?
* Staging doesn’t show up on Sonatype UI anymore
    * [https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/4003](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/4003)
    * [https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/4008](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/4008)
* Update spec plugin PR
    * [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish-spec-version-maven-plugin/pull/125](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/glassfish-spec-version-maven-plugin/pull/125)
* Requirement for Java SE 21
    * Update **ALL APIs** to a new major version because of this? **NO**
    * Take this discussion to MP (ongoing there), or elsewhere (here the majority - like Ivar, Emily - of the Jakarta Plattform Members think this is not a breaking change, but Jan is sure it is when following Semantic Versioning)
    * All TCK tests that depend on the Java Security Manager should be removed or updated.
        * Marlow:  Java 21 still includes the Java Security Manager so why remove SM from tests?  It does not enable it by default and requires a JVM argument and cannot be enabled dynamically.  **Java 17 deprecated it for removal.  Don’t want to depend on deprecated function in the JDK.  **[https://openjdk.org/jeps/411](https://openjdk.org/jeps/411) is the JEP and after Java 18, the contract isn’t necessarily honored any longer.
    * If JDK 21 is not strictly needed in the API, individual APIs can use lower levels
        * Spring is already on 17 - we can use at least 17
        * Older versions can remain using the older versions of our APIs when needed \

### Discuss Integration Approaches
* [https://docs.google.com/document/d/19YQIImMnj-5AKOg6Y-IwN2njseKJM4UIAXbLUOTmDL8/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19YQIImMnj-5AKOg6Y-IwN2njseKJM4UIAXbLUOTmDL8/edit?usp=sharing)** **

### **Managed Beans still remains in specs - purge more**
* Platform: [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/pull/804](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/pull/804)

### [Emily]Should Jakarta RESTful Web Services be replaced by Jakarta REST or we keep using RESTful WS?
* Jakarta RESTful Web Services spec and API should be updated to remove reference to JAX-RS.
* Should we replace JAX-RS with another shorter name? (e.g. Jakarta REST)
* Other specs should use Jakarta RESTful Web Services and can use a shorter name Jakarta RESTful Web Services (Jakarta REST). 

### Simulate disappeared SecurityManager?
* Code level security was intended for a trusted AS to run untrusted apps
* Today we run AS + single App in (docker) container or Virtual PC (Xen, vmware)

### Permissions.xml
* Should we explicitly call for removing this? (tied to Security manager)

### EJB optional methods (EJB 2 API Group)
* Remove entirely now?
    * Marlow: I think ^ means to remove EJB optional methods only from the Platform spec.

### Marlow: Can we disallow Platform voting during part of December/January due to people (possibly) being on holiday?