# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2023-12-12
Present:

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)

## Agenda and Minutes

### 2024-01-30 deadline for release reviews
* According to the waves, first wave needs to be 100%:
    * API done
    * TCK done
    * Spec document (if applicable) done
    * At least one Compatible Implementation done
* Emily
    * Observes there is effectively no time between M1 and asking for the release review on 2024-01-30.
    * Suggests we give specs the opportunity to give feedback on this aggressive deadline.
* Arjan suggested we reinterpret the 2024-01-30 deadline to mean that the Wave 1 Wave 1 - N specs will be ready at this time.
    * Concern about JSON-P. 
        * The commit graph looks very sparse. 
        * Many open PRs.
        * Needs some dependencies to be updated.
    * Ivar and Nathan observed we had granted Concurrency to be as late as 2024-03-29. This lead Ivar to suggest
        * Wave 1, 2, 3 and 4 2024-01-30 M2
        * Wave 5 2024-02-29 M3
        * Wave 6 and 7 2024-03-29 M4
        * Wave 8 2024-05-31
        * For each of the above bullet points:
            * The specs that are declared as final will include their final version
            * All other specs must produce another milestone release (or Ed/Arjan will produce it for them, by simply re-releasing the existing thing with a new version for M2, etc.).

### Jakarta.enterprise.cdi-el-api.jar in 4.1.0-M1 depends on expression language 5, not 6.0.0-M1
* Do milestones in the same waves next time, so dependencies are properly updated?
* Retrospective comment: we should observe the milestone ordering when performing the milestone release activities. \

### Faces proposes changing version for EE 11 from Faces 5.0 to Faces 4.1
* Do we need a new vote for 4.1?
* There isn’t an API for M1 in maven central yet for 4.1
* Ivar shared the plan to bring this up at spec committee 2023-12-13.
    * Ask for any objections (hope not).
    * Content: remove any breaking changes.
    * Plan as same as 5.0 but without the breaking changes.
    * Emily: update to 4.1 with a PR to the release plan.

### [Jea-102-optional](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/102)
* [Jea-105-the-big-table](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/105): What to do?
    * Consider this big [table](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/platform/10/jakarta-platform-spec-10.0.html#a2159) from the platform spec.
    * Based on my understanding of the ruling of the spec committee as described in [jea-101](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/101) the job to be done in JEA-105 is to
        * Remove all rows with OPT.
        * Fix the header text so it does not mention any of this REQ, POPT, OPT business.
        * Remove the Status column, since everything is required.
    * Do I have this right?
* [Jea-106-anything-else-to-start-removing](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/106)?
* [jea-249-Figure-1](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/249)
    * “Optional in Jakarta EE N” box. Do we need it?

### Schemas
* [Jea-201-decide-which-schemas-need-updating](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/201)

### [Jea-242-OSGi-forced](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/242) version changes
* Players
    * Pages 4.0 depends on EL 6 M1
    * Tags 3.0 (JSTL) depends on EL 5 M1
* Problem
    * We cannot have this mismatch due to OSGi.
* Proposed resolution
    * Do a Tags 3.1 which increases the dependency on EL to be 6 M1.
    * This requires specification committee action to approve the release, even if the only thing changing is incrementing the EL dependency level.
* Timeframe: target this to Milestone 2.

### Are there plans to fix the dependency issues on Jakarta Transactions?
* The current  version contains circular dependencies to outdated CDI versions (!)
* Doing a Major Release would  fix this.
    * Jared observed this is a **provided** dependency
        * &lt;dependency> \
&lt;groupId>jakarta.enterprise&lt;/groupId> \
&lt;artifactId>jakarta.enterprise.cdi-api&lt;/artifactId> \
&lt;version>3.0.1&lt;/version> \
&lt;scope>provided&lt;/scope> \
&lt;/dependency>
    * Therefore this is a dependency update, and therefore not a reason for a major release version.
    * Jan: We need to update to a provided CDI 4.x (with a breaking change to CDI 3.x), a Maven project sees a breaking change in Jakarta Transactions, derived from the CDI dependency.
    * There is also a Jakarta EJB compile dependency to Jakarta Transaction that need to be fixed