# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-07-22

Present

- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Thomas Watson (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)f  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)  
- Bernd Müller (Ostfalia)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)  
- Ed Burns (MSFT)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- 

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* James running the meeting this week  
* Ballot for James as a platform committer complete successfully – Congratulations  
* [21 outstanding CCRs](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification%20-label%3Aaccepted) to be accepted or rejected.  Most opened on July 7\.  1 just July 21  
* New platform challenge issue [2394](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2394)  
  * Affects signature test for web profile  
  * Not specific to Jakarta EE 11\.  Also a problem in 8, 9 and 10  
  * This will need to mark, likely as invalid, as we cannot add a test to a patch release. We will need to file an issue, and fix this for EE 12\.  
* TCK artifacts not published to maven for EE 11  
  * [Slack thread](https://eclipsefoundationhq.slack.com/archives/C0131MLD538/p1752619730978869) about this issue  
  * This will need to happen after the new/updated CI jobs have been created to release to Maven Central for the new Maven Central (Sonatype) repository.  
  * AI Scott Marlow: Open an issue with the help desk to ask them to manually release the staging repository.

## Jakarta EE 12

* Jakarta EE 12 Platform TCK [project dashboard](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/19)  
  * Issues opened for moving component specifications from platform TCK to their component repository  
* Should platform-tck project fold into the platform project and have common committer list?  
  * Can keep separate repository still without an issue  
  * Can still have separate mailing lists  
  * For EE 11 it was essential to have it separate. However, it may be okay now that the major refactor.  
  * Practically, not much would change. It’s more about making all platform committers also platform-tck committers.  
  * History from Ed Bratt: Oracle had different terms for the TCK itself.  
  * We will bring this up on the Platform TCK call tomorrow as well.  
* Continue AI discussion from last meeting  
  * Gist:  [https://gist.github.com/edburns/76062d7c780d16b9aaa4cf2590a4776c](https://gist.github.com/edburns/76062d7c780d16b9aaa4cf2590a4776c)   
  * We need some kind of story/statement around Jakarta EE and AI.  
  * One thought is to have the vendors talk more about this than the platform itself. Implementations should highlight what they’re doing, e.g. code first approach.  
  * There is not a suggestion, at this point but it may happen in the future, to have a specification.  
  * This action is more about a message and some kind of plan which the platform would communicate. Something to indicate we are thinking about this.  
  * We may need to create an Epic for AI and we should continue discussing this. It continues to come up at conferences.  
 
