# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-11-25

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- Nathan Erwin (Individual)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* December meeting schedule  
  * Canceled next call (December 2\) due to JakartaOne Livestream  
  * Will have last meetings of the year on December 9 and 16  
  * Canceling Dec 23 and 30 meetings as well.  Will be back on January 6\.  
* [4 new CCRs](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification) outstanding.  1 new one since last week.


# Jakarta EE 12

* OSSRH Update  
  * Work on a staging replacement has been initiated. Follow and comment in the [issue](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/6890).   
  * Question: Do we need this for all EE4J projects, or only Specification Projects  
    * Yes so can stage implementations when doing ratifying of a specification  
  * [repo.eclipse.org](http://repo.eclipse.org) will become the new staging location for us to put artifacts while we are working on ratification of specifications  
  * New plugin will exist to stage artifacts to the [repo.eclipse.org](http://repo.eclipse.org)  
* MicroProfile and Jakarta update  
  * Ballot with spec committee was started for bringing MP into Jakarta using existing namespace  
    * Ballot was to end yesterday  
    * Evidence of votes from the mailing list indicates that it has failed  
  * Jan:  Namespaces are to help separate when in different orgs.  After coming into Jakarta WG, they are the same org so should have same namespace  
    * Doing the change once with a major release avoids having to do major releases over and over as some specs are moved to the jakarta specs for things like JWT and REST  
    * Need to choose jakarta packages that do not conflict with other existing jakarta specifications  
    * Should MP be a new profile in Jakarta platform?  “Jakarta Micro Profile” or should it be a separate offering outside of the Jakarta Platform?  Just because it is part of Jakarta WG doesn’t automatically make it part of the platform.  
    * Obviously we want to get MP Config moved into Core Profile as Jakarta Config.  If Jakarta Config is in org.eclipse.microprofile it becomes an issue of consistency.    
    * Telemetry is special in that it doesn’t have a MP namespaced API.  Will we need to make a jakarta namespaced API to wrap it to satisfy these requirements?  Telemetry is an established namespace in a different organization.  So it would be an exception to the rule.  
    * Newer developers may be turned off by a fragmented API (feedback from a recent conference).  Existing applications that already use MP APIs will feel the pain of migrating to a new namespace.  
    * Comparing the transition of MP namespace change to Java EE namespace change is not necessarily fair since MP has a smaller API and MP frequently changes things in a breaking way.  With the new tooling added from the Java EE namespace transition that will make it easier for MP developers  
    * Similar discussions took place in the last MicroProfile Steering Committee Meeting [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1B0I9NIiMZHIphrXHvB01KnSO9gu1lZPGFvSJ-rnlTfQ/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.hyh98usp6p0d).  
  * More discussions will likely happen at the next Jakarta Specification Committee with going over the ballot results.  Currently scheduled for tomorrow, but could move.  
* Jakarta EE 12 Milestone 2  
  * Limited progress since Milestone 1\.  
  * Considering extending Milestone 2 into January  
  * Holidays at the end of the year do not help with getting things done  
  * Platform / spec committee task / requirements were not created yet for Milestone 2 issues which never happened yet  
* Jakarta Platform TCK call is next week Wednesday  
* Open Floor  
  * Michael:  Jakarta starter project.  Who owns it?    
    * It is an EE4J project.  It is normal project with committers.  Can contribute and get added as a committer.  
    * As a product is certified on a new version we want to get it added to the starter.  
    * If products have their own starter it is good to know that as well to help create the jakarta starter for that product  
  * 