# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-04-08  
Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)  
- Anand NK (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Bernd Müller (Ostfalia)  
- James Perkins (Red Hat)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- John Clingan (Red Hat)  
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

### Top of mind for Ed, Arjan, Jared

* Jakarta EE 11 Web Profile release  
  * Ivar will / has published  
    * Maven publish job was run  
    * Spec page is live and TCK is promoted  
  * MVC 3.0 with EE 11 support also to be published  
    * Need release review for MVC and then can publish it  
  * Need to update the javadoc to fix the missing space and copyright date  
    * Maven file is updated, just need to rerun the job and make a new PR with the updated javadoc

* Jakarta EE 11 Platform release  
  * **Tentative** schedule thoughts  
    * April 30 TCK complete  
    * May 15 CCR created and mentor review start  
    * May 19 start ballot (complete 7 to 14 days)  
  * TCK persistence tests failing for EJB runs  
  * Some component TCKs aren’t started yet  
  * Jobs / runners need some updating for the new style of running  
  * Connector failures need to be looked at

* Continued discussion on BOM dependencies  
  * Keep it the way it is  
    * Pros  
      * Makes it easier on developers doing MP and Jakarta applications  
    * Cons  
      * It isn’t accurate from a spec perspective, but is accurate from a technical perspective today.  If that changed in a future EE level could change it  
  * Change back to remove Core Profile dependency in Web Profile?  
    * Pros  
      * Accurate to specification  
    * Cons  
      * Makes things difficult on developers doing MP and Jakarta applications  
      * MicroProfile probably would want to remove dependency on Core Profile and only include the component specifications  
      * Cannot have Web Profile and Core Profile have different component dependency versions wouldn’t be possible, but could address that eventually if it becomes an issue  
  * Have a vote on whether to change back to not have dependency on profile(s) or leave it the way it is  
  * MicroProfile versioning in the future  
    * Today MicroProfile depends on CoreProfile 10 \+ for the latest versions  
      * Vendors can use either EE 10 or EE 11 Core Profile  
    * Should Core Profile go away eventually and just be consumed by MicroProfile when / if moved to Jakarta?  
    * Could align with the platform versioning and may have minor release updates independent of the Web Profile and Platform or could keep the current versioning independent of the Jakarta Platform release versioning  
    * MicroProfile is meant for faster development as an emerging cloud platform.  Jakarta needs to be slower with the larger install base since it affects a lot of customers.

    


### TCK Refactoring Jakarta EE 11

* 

### Jakarta EE 12

* [Issues labeled with EE12](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3AEE12)  
* Jakarta HTTP:   
  * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/12niPzZdISs7hRdTWsZn\_JM30Et9kWuih4F8h87LKHI4/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/12niPzZdISs7hRdTWsZn_JM30Et9kWuih4F8h87LKHI4/edit?usp=sharing)  
  * ACTION:  Arjan to send document to platform, servlet and rest mailing lists to get comments  
* Release plans due in 1 week for EE 12 component specifications  
  * Platform release plans also needed  
    * Core Profile  
      * component spec version updates  
        * Annotation 3.1 / 4.0? seen some discussion  
        * CDI 5.0 (plan approved) (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * JSON-P 2.2 / 3.0 (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * JSON-B 3.1 / 4.0 being discussed  
        * REST 4.1 / 5.0 being discussed (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * Dependency Injection (No update planned)  
        * Interceptors (No update planned?)  
      * add Config  
      * add HTTP?  
    * Web Profile   
      * component spec version updates  
        * Authentication / Security combination?  
        * Concurrency 3.2 (plan created)  
        * Data 1.1 (plan approved)  
        * Express Language 6.1 (plan approved)  
        * Faces 5.0 (plan in ballot)  
        * Servlet 6.2 (plan in ballot)  
        * Persistence 3.3 / 4.0 being discussed (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * Pages 4.1 (plan approved)  
        * Validation 3.2 / 4.0 / service release (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * WebSocket 2.3 (plan approved)  
        * Transactions 2.1 / 3.0 being discussed  
        * Tags 3.1 / 4.0 possibly being discussed  
      * Deprecate EJB Lite?  Or just a statement of direction only  
        * In favor of CDI beans  
        * EJB Lite is more commonly used these day compared to Remote EJB  
        * Remove EJB container requirements in Web Profile?  Back things with CDI?  
          * Then require an update to the EJB specification possibly for EJB Lite  
        * In release plan, include creating a document with plans for the future possibly?  Outside of the spec document.  A roadmap possibly.  
        * Instead of deprecate use the term stabilize to say not going to add new functions to the specification  
      * Add Query  
      * Add NoSQL?  
      * Add MVC?  
    * Platform  
      * component spec version updates  
        * Authorization update / move to Web Profile / combine with security  
        * Activation 2.2 / 3.0 (Required for SecurityManager  
        * Batch 2.2 / 3.0 (Required for SecurityManager  
        * Connectors 2.2 / 3.0 being discussed  
        * Mail 2.2 / 3.0 being discussed (Required for SecurityManager)  
        * Messaging 3.2 / 4.0 being discussed  
        * EJB 4.1? (Remove SecurityManager reference)  
          * [SecurityManager spec language](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/enterprise-beans/4.0/jakarta-enterprise-beans-spec-core-4.0#a9586)  
      * Deprecate app client support for removal in EE 13  
      * Deprecate EJB  
        * See EJB Lite discussion  
        * MDB commonly used.  JMS update make it possible to not need MDBs moving forward?
