# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-12-09

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Bernd Müller (Ostfalia)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* OSSRH  
  * Staging locations are created for all of the projects.  Testing in progress  
    * Update at 17:29: A working example here: [https://github.com/eclipse-cbi/central-staging-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file\#complete-workflow-with-profile](https://github.com/eclipse-cbi/central-staging-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#complete-workflow-with-profile)  
    * Seb may have a working project example soon  
    * If anyone wants to try and provide feedback, please do so  
* Project combination status  
  * Platform and TCK committers are now merged.  If you were a platform committer, you can now commit to the TCK and vice versa  
* [Slack thread](https://eclipsefoundationhq.slack.com/archives/C013KSBQTT4/p1764617945671829) about updates to project pages that removes TCK change history.    
  * It is nice to have a consistent layout for project pages, but should we still allow for history for projects if they so choose?  TCK change history in the repo or TCK doc?  
  * May need to add something to the TCK release check list for service releases to make sure that there is a “readme” updated to include what changed in the TCK service release  
* December meeting schedule  
  * Will have last meetings of the year today and 16  
  * Canceled Dec 23 and 30 meetings.  Will be back on January 6

# Jakarta EE 12

* Milestone 2  
  * December 9 is here.  No one has a M2 release.    
  * Seems with all of the holidays, vacations and conferences, things did not happen  
  * Need a new M2 date  
  * James:  Rest spec hasn’t had any updates  
  * Scott M: Persistence there are lots of discussions for 4.0 spec and PRs  
  * JSON-P and JSON-B not API work recently.  Yasson fixes being worked  
  * Date thoughts.  **Jan 27** is the new date for M2  
* Milestone last  
  * What date will be the last milestone?  
  * Glassfish is finishing up their work for their EE 11 release and will be working on vNext for EE 12 afterward.  
  * Other vendors are finishing up their EE 11 implementations which competes for time working on EE 12  
  * Originally looking to have EE 12 be available by end of June 2026, but that seems in jeopardy while specs are being worked through for their updates

# Jakarta EE 11

* Marlow: [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2593](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2593) is an interesting challenge for two EE 11 Platform TCK Persistence tests that should have been excluded or updated or removed but weren’t.  
  * [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/blob/10.0.x/install/jakartaee/bin/ts.jtx\#L67](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/blob/10.0.x/install/jakartaee/bin/ts.jtx#L67) has a list of tests that should have been excluded or updated or removed for EE 11 for reference.  
  * I think we might of missed migrating the test exclusions from EE 10 \-\> for Persistence because of the Persistence 3.2 Standalone TCK package rename from [com.sun.ts](http://com.sun.ts).tests.jpa \-\> ee.jakarta.tck.persistence which caused some mapping issues.  
    * In hindsight we should have waited to rename the test package.  
  * Would be good to have an issue opened for fixing it in EE 12 so that it isn’t excluded again in 12  
  * From the exclude list in the first bullet, there are challenge issues closed for many of them, but they may not have issues opened for fixing the tests after the tests were excluded

* Last Jakarta Futures interest group meeting is Thursday.  Trying to come up with a topic  
* MicroProfile Steering committee meeting is today
