# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-09-09

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Brian Stansberry (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- César Hernández (Tomitribe)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- Bernd Müller (Ostfalia)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* OSSRH update  
  * Still need to update the parent pom   
    * Currently using a sonatype plugin for publishing to maven in the prototype, but doesn’t work with staging since it requires a login for staging  
    * IT team is working on a plugin that mimics what we have done in the past for publishing and dropping to staging using APIs.  Still has issues with accessing the artifact in staging.  
    * May need to use a nexus instance.  Looking at [eclipse.org](http://eclipse.org) instance or if we need our own.  May need to have a Nexus v3 version.  Release and drop buttons are gone in v3.  We have used the maven plugin to do it previously to do the release and drop.  
    * [https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/5854](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/5854) issue that is being used to track this work  
  * Data status on trying it out for their publish  
    * Working on snapshots for 1.1  
    * Doing a lot of workarounds to work around what is currently in the parent pom for distribution management  
    * Can work on the PR for the parent pom update and make a snapshot of the parent pom changes  
* Ballot to combine Platform and Platform TCK Eclipse projects (not GH repos or mailing list)  
  * Draft email  
    Subject:  BALLOT to restructure Jakarta Platform and Jakarta TCK Eclipse projects  
      
    I request your vote to approve the proposal to restructure the [Jakarta EE Platform](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-platform) and [Platform TCK](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-tck) Eclipse projects to be a single project.  This will not affect the existing mailing lists or the github repositories.  Those will continue to be separate.  This proposal will combine the projects and committer list of the Platform and Platform TCK Eclipse projects.  
      
    This will be a fourteen-day ballot, ending on Monday, September 22, 2025, that requires a simple majority positive vote of the committee members (note that there is no veto).  Community input is welcome, but only votes cast by [Platform](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-platform/who) and [TCK](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-tck/who) Committers will be counted.  
      
    Please respond with \+1 (positive), 0 (abstain), or \-1 (reject) on this BALLOT to indicate your preference regarding whether or not to combine the projects. Any feedback that you can provide to support your vote will be appreciated.  
      
* [30 new CCRs](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification%20-label%3Aaccepted) created that need to be reviewed.  All are Payara CCRs  
* [Challenges](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Achallenge) that are accepted by the TCK committers that will be addressed and a new TCK service release created in the coming weeks

## Jakarta EE 12

* MP and Jakarta update  
  * MP community will do actions based on Jakarta Spec Committee results  
  * Jakarta Spec Committee stated that they welcome the MP community to join and Jakarta Working Group and will need to follow the release process for their releases when they come over to Jakarta  
  * No other restrictions added by Spec Committee  
  * Any namespace decisions required by the Spec Committee.  The Platform could put on such restrictions if a spec is added to the Jakarta Platform.  
  * MP specs coming to the Jakarta Community does NOT add them to the Jakarta Platform.  MP can release independent of the Jakarta Platform, just like other Jakarta standalone specifications.  
  * Different Jakarta and MP user groups have conflicting opinions on namespace change.  Some are for it and some are against it.   
    * For MP, it may be less disruptive since MP may not be embedded in libraries as much as Java EE was.  
  * MP and Jakarta community next step is to propose a plan and starting some discussion  
* Ballot to include Query into Web Profile (needed for Persistence, Data and NoSQL (not in platform yet)).  2 week ballot  
  * Query doesn’t have a milestone of the query specification yet for people to consider if it is ready to be part of the platform  
  * Data is waiting on Query to be part of the platform in order to make updates to the specification  
    * If the ballot passes the query language section in the Data specification will be removed and reference the Query specification  
    * [Jakarta Data 1.1 plan](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/data/1.1/) includes: Move Jakarta Data Query Language to Jakarta Query specification (if accepted and included in Jakarta EE 12\) where it will remain fully compatible.  
  * Would like to get feedback from the Persistence and NoSQL spec communities on if they plan to adopt the Query specification  
    * [https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/4.0/](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/4.0/) references Query spec addition: \`Donate definition of Jakarta Persistence Query Language to Jakarta Query\`  
    * [Jakarta NoSQL 1.1 plan](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/nosql/1.1/) includes:  **Jakarta Query** support for fluent, portable query definitions  
  * Query is looking for it to be a spec only with no API, TCK or compatible implementation.  Something we can do?  
    * Haven’t done something like this in the past  
    * It requires Data, NoSQL, Persistence to have the Query testing in their TCKs  
    * TCK is to test that implementers provide the function defined by a specification that applications can rely on  
    * Thought to not ratifying Query 1.0 spec until there is an implementation of Data, Persistence, and/or NoSQL that ratifies and ratify them together  
  * Delaying ballot until later after more progress on Query specification and discussion  
  * Draft email  
    Subject: BALLOT to include Query in Platform and Web Profile 12  
      
    This email indicates the start of a ballot for inclusion of Jakarta Query into the Jakarta EE Platform and Web Profile 12\.    
      
    Vote \+1 (positive), 0 (abstain), or \-1 (reject) on this BALLOT to indicate your preference regarding whether or not to include the Query specification in the Web Profile, in addition to the Platform. This vote will be counted by a simple majority of Platform Project committers as listed in https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-platform/who (note that there is no veto).  Any feedback that you can provide to support your vote will be appreciated.  This will be a fourteen-day ballot, ending on Monday, September XX, 2025 or when all committers have voted, whichever comes first.  
      
    Non-committers are encouraged to vote as a measure of community sentiment.  
* Debugging specification fate  
  * Remove it from the platform since it isn’t used?  
  * Fold it into the Jakarta Pages specification?  
* Milestone 1