# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-06-03

# Present:

* Jared Anderson (IBM)  
* Ed Burns (Microsoft)  
* Kyle Aure (IBM)  
* Anija K A (IBM)  
* Anand N K (IBM)  
* Nauthan Rauh (IBM)  
* Tom Watson (IBM)  
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
* James Perkins (Red Hat)  
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
* Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
* Emily Jiang (IBM)

### Top of mind for Ed, Arjan, Jared

* OSSRH status update  
  * Requested platform and platform tck not to do June 9 date, but to the later one to not affect our ballot

## Jakarta EE 11

* GF 8 JDK 17 for 17 and 21 pushed to Maven central  
* June 5 CCR to be created and mentor review to start.  
  * One CCR for JDK 17 and 21 [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1107](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1107)   
  * Impressions from GlassFish of running the refactored TCK in anger  
    * 10x faster.  
    * Projects are all maven projects.  
      * Dependencies easily viewable.  
      * Decoupled so can be run independently.  
    * Tests are JUnit, so are easier to understand.  
    * Arquillian modes are supported.  
      * Server side, in container.  
      * Client side.  
      * The use of these modes could be more consistent.  
  * WildFly also reports faster completion times.  
* June 9 to start the ballot (complete 7 to 14 days).  
  * There was a requirement from the Spec Committee to ensure that all of the artifacts that comprise the TCK big zip are also published to Maven central. This did happen when we did the Web Profile. Confirm that this has happened again.  
* Release review PR  
  * [Jakarta EE 11 Platform Release Review by jhanders34 · Pull Request \#849 · jakartaee/specifications](https://github.com/jakartaee/specifications/pull/849)

## Jakarta EE 12

* Plan review ballot status [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17)   
  * All ballots are complete  
* MicroProfile move to Jakarta update  
  * Straw polls happened last week  
    * Polls complete this week and next so won’t know results until they close  
  * Positive feedback about moving to Jakarta  
  * Namespace is the main concern still  
    * Who has authority to set what the namespace is?  Jakarta specification committee?  Component communities?  
    * Change as you move forward with new releases in Jakarta working group or do big bang like with Jakarta 9?  
  * Basic timeline  
    * MP WG votes to move to Jakarta  
    * Jakarta WG votes to accept MP  
    * MP repos move to Jakarta  
    * MP WG is disbanded