# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-05-20  
Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- John Clingan (Red Hat)  
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
- David Matejcek (OmniFish)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomtribe)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Gurunandan Rao(Oracle)  
- 

### Top of mind for Ed, Arjan, Jared

* OSSRH maven changes are happening in the near future as documented in [this mailing list post](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg20055.html).  
  * Ivar is following up on this issue.  
  * Likely will try to do a new version of the ee4j parent to resolve this issue and then all will benefit  
  * Existing releases  
    * Next service release of projects will need to update to use the new parent version and update ci job likely  
  * New release (standalone or EE 12\)  
    * Will need to have ci job updated and need to use new parent version  
* Arjan put together fixes for two problem that were test setup issues for TCK  
  * App client changes to deploy ear file, download app client module and then use that in the new app client protocol function in the TCK.

### Jakarta EE 11

* **Tentative** schedule thoughts  
  * May 21 TCK complete  
  * June 5 CCR created and mentor review started  
  * June 9 start ballot (complete 7 to 14 days)  
* Data API added to Glassfish will be done shortly and a new release created  
  * Plan to work on this with the other two bugs opened up for what are perceived regressions to be resolved and include in a new release.  
* Seeing many tests still failing.  May be more things to work out.  
  * Assembly  
  * EJB tests  
  * Mail TCK  
  * Signature (Requires Data API update)  
* Final version of Expressly 6.0 being released now that the CI is back.  
  * Required for Hibernate Validator 9.0 to do its final release.  
* Arjan proposed to try to deprecate App Client in EE 11 still  
  * Too late to try to make such a change.  It is part of the EE 12 platform release plan though.

### Jakarta EE 12

* Plan review ballot status [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17)   
  * Final spec (Activation) has been sent to ballot  
* New specifications to consider for Jakarta EE 12 platform / profiles  
  * Query 1.0  
    * Pretty much expect to be part of the Jakarta EE 12  
    * Is it too early to have a ballot to include No SQL in EE 11 Web Profile?  
      * Previously we talked about not having a 1.0 added to the platform.  That was discussion for NoSQL.  We didn’t do that though with Data 1.0 though.  
      * During EE 11 for NoSQL, it was not ready even for a 1.0 at the time  
      * Yes likely because there is no milestone content yet, but mostly it is a refactor of what is in Persistence / Data  
      * Watch for progress and add during a milestone  
  * NoSQL 1.1  
    * 1.1 release plan created to include Driver function  
    * 1.0 released in the recent past which would have been too late for EE 11 which is why not included there  
    * Is it too early to have a ballot to include NoSQL in EE 11 Web Profile?  
      * Again wait to see what the new function in 1.1 (Driver API) looks like before considering it for inclusion in the platform / web profile.  
  * MVC 3.1  
    * 3.0 was released for support of EE 11  
    * 3.1 is for EE 12 support  
    * Development is rather quiet and slow, but some of that is because it is relatively stable / mature.  It is about 8 to 9 years old  
    * Rendering has been in and out of fashion over the years.  Faces also does similar rendering.  Having two offerings may be overkill.  Pages also does server side rendering of sorts.  
    * For EE 11, ballot for inclusion was a No and to keep it as a standalone specification  
    * Vendors know of how much use they see in their products  
      * Glassfish has MVC included and has seen at least one customer using it  
      * Liberty does not have MVC in its product  
      * Wildfly recently included it?  
      * Payara may be adding it or if it has been added yet is unknown  
    * Alternative for Spring MVC and was big about 10 years ago, but has quieted down with the rise of things like client side frameworks like Angular  
    * Due to the many things above, it is likely better for this spec to stay standalone  
    * Could be a question for the next survey.  Which front end technologies are used? – Faces, Pages, MVC, GWT?, Wicket, others   
  * HTTP  
    * Too early to know if will be part of EE 12  
    * Creation proposal isn’t done yet  
  * Config from MicroProfile   
    * Need to wait on MP to Jakarta to complete.  See below. \[John\] Not 100% bought in, but the idea has merit. John to go back to red hatters to get thoughts.  
  * RPC   
    * Seems little interest  
    * Little to no development happening lately  
    * Likely it makes sense to remain as a standalone specification  
  * Portlet / Portlet Bridge  
    * Too early to discuss for inclusion in the platform since it is in creation review right now  
    * This is a specification for Java EE that is being “jakarta-ized”  
    * It was standalone in Java EE so likely should remain standalone as well in Jakarta EE  
    * Likely should not be part of the platform since it is very specific use case  
* Any specifications to consider deprecating from the platform / profiles  
  * EJB?  Just remote?  
* Jakarta HTTP  
  * Mailing list communication to platform, rest and servlet hasn’t happened yet.  
    * Arjan still working on this. There was productive feedback in the google doc. https://docs.google.com/document/d/12niPzZdISs7hRdTWsZn\_JM30Et9kWuih4F8h87LKHI4/edit?usp=sharing  
    * Alvin or Guru may also help with getting this added to the mailing list  
* MicroProfile moving to Jakarta update  
  * Straw poll was run last week  
    * Namespace question – jakarta vs org.eclipse.microprofile  
    * Having discussions before doing the official ballot  
    * People had concerns about conflation of issue in the poll  
    * 2 keep namespace, 1 change name space and 4 confusion about conflation of ideas  
    * One idea came out – Consider letting each MP component spec decide on name space within the Jakarta Working Group ("after" merge)  
    * More discussion on the results at today’s MP technical call  
  * Jan suggested to have a straw poll about the basic question of MP moving to Jakarta and if there are any red lines for any voting members, ex. Namespace  
    * Name space is probably the most controversial  
    * Moving to a Jakarta profile and the name of that profile in Jakarta will be the next thing to determine  
  * Config being part of Jakarta EE 12 is dependent on the MP WG coming over to Jakarta  
    * Don’t want Jakarta EE 12 to be the deciding reason for the move over to Jakarta  
    * Moving of Config to Jakarta should be the first thing done after MP move is decided / approved  
    * If not approved as a whole we could consider just doing MP Config and do others later  
* Administrative issues board [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/18](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/18)   
  * [Specification-committee \#74](https://github.com/jakartaee/specification-committee/issues/74)