# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-04-29  
Present:

- James Perkins (Red Hat)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
- Ed Burns (MSFT)  
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)  
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)  
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

### Top of mind for Ed, Arjan, Jared

* Jared out next week 6 May  
* Ed out week of 19 May  
* [tck-2183-ConnectorServletJsp action](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2183) plan  
  * Are these tests running on any other container?  
    * Liberty: not yet  
    * WildFly?  
      * James: Not yet, but I can work on this next. I’m currently battling EJB.  
    * Payara?  
      * Can you see if just [tck-2183-ConnectorServletJsp](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2183) passes on your Payara product targeted for EE 11\. (Petr: WIP, but majority works)  
      * Arjan explained the engineering model for how Payara incorporates changes from GlassFish. One way they could **not** have this bug, would be for the bug to have been introduced into GlassFish, but Payara had not yet incorporated the code with the bug.  
  * Technical discussion  
    * There may be some ways to declare that GlassFish 8 does pass these tests, but it may require some custom configuration.  
  * Plan of record for dealing with this.  
    * ~~1\. Have this proposal ready, but do not send it [https://gist.github.com/edburns/e1b6c1442240e6adae214a005defc4e0](https://gist.github.com/edburns/e1b6c1442240e6adae214a005defc4e0)~~   
    * 2\. Arjan continues to investigate.  
    * 3\. Jared to check in with Arjan on Friday 2025-05-02.  
* Eclipse outage mitigation  
  * Impact on our schedule  
    * For certain: one week delay.  
    * Let’s take this opportunity to declare that we hope to start the EE 11 Platform ballot no later than 11 June.  
    * **Tentative** schedule thoughts  
      * May 21 ~~April 30~~ TCK complete  
      * June 5 ~~May 15~~ CCR created and mentor review started  
      * June 9 ~~May 19~~ start ballot (complete 7 to 14 days)  
    * ACTION: Ed to confirm with the TCK team tomorrow that this schedule is realistic.

### Jakarta EE 12

* Plan review ballot status [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/17)   
* Review where components specs are on the board  
  * Still waiting on 4 components to create a release plan or decide on no release for EE 12  
    * Mail (Lukas) \- Required for Java SecurityManager removal  
    * Activation (Lukas) \- Required for Java SecurityManager removal  
    * Interceptors (David Blevins)  
    * Messaging (David Blevins)  
* Jakarta HTTP  
  * Mailing list communication to platform, rest and servlet hasn’t happened yet  
* MicroProfile moving to Jakarta update  
  * Trying to figure out how much to put in the migration / re-homing proposal  
    * Namespace being part of the proposal or not  
    * Meeting cadence change or be the same  
  * Next meeting will be today to discuss this more  
  * MP JWT Bridge future once MicroProfile moves to Jakarta will be interesting  
* Administrative issues board [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/18](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/18)   
  * TCK lazy consensus issue discussion for platform   
    * Will add an agenda item to the platform / platform-tck call to discuss if there are challenges that need to be looked at.  
    * Still need to state what implementors to expect for how long challenges should be considered before lazy consensus.  
    * Do we even want to have lazy consensus?  
    * Two weeks seems too short possibly  
    * Need to state where challenge issues should be opened for the platform tck – platform or platform-tck repo
