# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-08-26

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Welcome back everyone  
* [Issue 1135](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1135) added to platform issues to be discussed for EE 12\.  
  * Definitely need to add new tests in EE 12 to test scenarios that are not covered in the exist TCK tests.  
  * May want to consider if we want to continue to support duplicate persistent units in EE 12 still or if we should change that.  
  * If you are going to use duplicates, you will need to use a qualifiers in order to differentiate when doing CDI injection.  
  * Is there a reason for the bean name to be defined in reality?  Should it be changed to not be required?  
  * A bean name is needed possibly for injecting into a Pages page for instance so if that is a requirement, then it would be good to have a test added for that.  
  * BeanManager per application vs per module is where you can run into issues with the duplicate persistent unit names.    
  * Beans need to be visible throughout the application per the CDI specification.  
  * Instead of persistence unit name, it may make sense to use the CDI qualifier for the bean name possibly?  That is what should be used by any of the injectors.  
  * Today when doing injecting using @PersistenceContext there is scoping added to specify which one of the duplicates to use, see [https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.2/jakarta-persistence-spec-3.2\#a12459](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.2/jakarta-persistence-spec-3.2#a12459)  
  * Regardless, a Bean does require there to be a bean name.  
  * Today this is scoped to the EntityManagerFactory only, but this conversation may also need to be considered for the other Persistence injected types (EntityManager, etc).  
  * @Named was discussed, but in general it is mostly for allowing a way to work around things and not the general approach.  
  * ACTION Jared to update the issue with the conversation details above \- DONE  
* OSSRH status  
  * Progress is happening and things are being released  
  * Plugin created:  
    * [https://github.com/eclipse-cbi/central-staging-plugins](https://github.com/eclipse-cbi/central-staging-plugins)   
  * Need to get added to the parent POM  
  * People would use the new parent POM version or if not used update to use the new plugin  
  * Question came up where is staging location for the new central   
  * Data will look at trying it out, but would possibly need the new parent POM update   
* Platform challenge issue [2394](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/issues/2394) followup next actions  
  * Option 2: Or we could consider making the change and working to get an exception from the specification committee    
  * Specification committee agreed with option 2  
  * ACTION Jared to update the challenge issue with the specification committee discussion \- DONE  
* [1 new CCR](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification%20-label%3Aaccepted) to be accepted or rejected

## Jakarta EE 12

* Continue AI discussion from last meeting  
  * Gist:  [https://gist.github.com/edburns/76062d7c780d16b9aaa4cf2590a4776c](https://gist.github.com/edburns/76062d7c780d16b9aaa4cf2590a4776c)   
  * Ed worked to get gist converted to a blog with a colleague  
  * Brian’s gist of a start of a blog post:  [https://gist.github.com/bbenz/d6850341597cca14b453f88f228fed86](https://gist.github.com/bbenz/d6850341597cca14b453f88f228fed86)  
  * Markus Eisele lead a call at Jakarta futures session last week Friday with the topic: “From CRUD to Co‑Pilots: Will Jakarta EE Own or Miss the AI‑Native Java Stack?”  
    * Discussion at the session included may not be ready to spec AI since it is moving so quickly  
    * May be good to highlight things within the industry for implementation until things come about that can be put out as an API  
    * Recording is [here](https://youtu.be/lipodiI0wqw).  
  * MCP seems to be standardizing.  Can we add integration with it with REST and CDI?  
  * MP AI is looking at MCP smallrye integration that is out there that is using annotations.  
  * When people do search engine or chat bot query for AI and Java / Jakarta we would like something to show up from a blog post to give answers and show things are happening in this space  
* Next meeting will look more about milestone 1 which is roughed into a schedule for completing in September  
* MP and Jakarta should be part of the next Platform meeting  
* Platform and TCK merge ballot to be started in September as previously discussed.
