# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-07-08

Present:

- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Jared out today.  James is running the meeting.  
* OSSRH status update.  
  * Currently holding up some service releases for NoSQL and Data at least  
  * Still working on staging issues  
    * Open questions:  
      * Do we need a Nexus 3 staging repository?  
      * What other options are there for staging?  
* Spec committee opened PRs against all repos for review and merging as discussed in [Andrew’s email](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-spec-project-leads/msg00911.html).  
  * Please follow-up with your project’s spec leads

## Jakarta EE 12

* ACTION: Ed to mine [Retrospective \- Jakarta EE 11](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XVmpPjsXG6EHF05IndOAVY50cGhNzO0VYXxHvz1csrg/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.2atztmyfivz3) for actionable work to move to [platform-1109](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1109).  
* MP and Jakarta update  
  * Not much progress so far. The strawpoll has effectively failed so far.  
  * Look at moving MicroProfile Config to Jakarta. It seems feasible given the conversation in the MP technical call last week.  
  * Likely splitting into two parts:  
    * Programmatic lookup  
    * CDI lookup  
  * Attempting to launch another ballot about a namespace change.  
  * Namespace change for MP Config:  
    * Should the programmatic API namespace change and leave the CDI namespace?  
    * Most MP specs rely on config. This would be a breaking change. Splitting the namespace might help as most specifications use CDI for config.  
* New Query specification:  
  * Should this be part of Jakarta EE 12? It will affect persistence and data.  
* Look at NoSQL as well to see if it can be part of Jakarta EE 12\.  
  * There hasn’t been a response to whether the native NoSQL vendors have any interest in this.  
  * From conversation at conferences this seems like something developers really want. MongoDB seems to be the current preferred option.  
* We should also consider looking at Jakarta MVC for Jakarta EE 12 as well.
