# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-09-23

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Chithra Mini (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Brian Stansberry (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- 

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Ballot for combining Platform and TCK projects has started.  Will complete tomorrow.  All positive votes thus far.  
* OSSRH update  
  * Parent POM experimental update has been merged to allow for playing with the new plugin, but we still have limitations with the current implementation.   
    * There is now a snapshot of the parent pom.  A 2.0.0-SNAPSHOT was created successfully this morning.  
    * [This Jenkins job](https://ci.eclipse.org/ee4j/job/ee4j-parent-release-snapshot/) was the one used.  
  * The Release Engineering (RelEng) team has put out a latest status on OSSRH migration [here](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/cross-project-issues-dev/msg20066.html).  There is a lot of good information in that mail.  The latest status is still being tracked in [this issue](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/5854).  
* First Jakarta EE 11 CCRs were created a week and a half ago.  3 new JBoss CCRs for EE 10 were created last week.

## Jakarta EE 12

* Marlow: When can we have a staged EE 12 BOM that contains staged (or to be staged) SPEC APIs?  
  * Created [https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-api/issues/195](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-api/issues/195) for tracking this.  
  * Of course the parent pom needs to be available for the BOM to be created.  
  * Until component specs have new versions, would need to use older versions  
  * Can use snapshot builds until we have milestone releases of different APIs  
* [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1) dashboard populated with M1 issues for each spec with an update for EE 12\.  
  * Aiming for October 15 for completion for M1  
  * Main concern is publishing  
* Query inclusion in the Platform ballot  
  * Previous objections to starting the ballot:  
    * Is there progress on the specification to be able to evaluate it for inclusion?  
      * Yes.  See the README and the snapshot specification document.  
    * Will it be ready in time for the EE 12 timeline?  
      * Otavio expressed confidence in it being done in the next 1 to 3 months.  
    * Are the consuming specifications going to add dependency on it for EE 12?  
      * They are waiting with bated breath.  
    * How will it be tested with a TCK in order to ratify it?  
      * Will need Data and Persistence TCK to include query tests for the Core and Extended Query functions and they need to be ratified in order to ratify the Query specification.   
      * This is similar to how we do annotations and interceptors with dependent spec tck doing the testing  
  * Draft email  
    Subject: BALLOT to include Query in Platform and Web Profile 12  
      
    This email indicates the start of a ballot for inclusion of Jakarta Query into the Jakarta EE Platform and Web Profile 12\.    
      
    Vote \+1 (positive), 0 (abstain), or \-1 (reject) on this BALLOT to indicate your preference regarding whether or not to include the Query specification in the Web Profile, in addition to the Platform. This vote will be counted by a simple majority of Platform Project committers as listed in https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jakartaee-platform/who (note that there is no veto).  Any feedback that you can provide to support your vote will be appreciated.  This will be a fourteen-day ballot, ending on Monday, September XX, 2025 or when all committers have voted, whichever comes first.  
      
    Non-committers are encouraged to vote as a measure of community sentiment.  
* Jakarta and MicroProfile Update  
  * Waiting on a proposed ballot for Platform from Emily I believe  
  * No updates.  Low attendance last week at the MP meeting  
  * MP Steering committee meeting next Tuesday.    
  * Eclipse Foundation is nudging to get this done by end of year to help with budgeting for next year  
* Java 25 went live last week  
  * We want to be testing with at least Java 21 and 25 for EE 12\.  Older Java levels as well if component specs are using an older version as their minimum.  
  * Had discussion about SecurityManager removal in the future  
  * Java 25 does NOT remove the SecurityManager API.  It could possibly be removed in Java 29 in 2027  
  * In the future we could create multi-release jars for EE 8, 9, 9.1, 10.0, and 11 to have an API version of API classes that use SecurityManager when using Java 29 and later  
  * Can do a non exported utility class to simplify it so you only need to have one class that is multi-released  
  * Java 25 did have a change related to concurrency and parallelism default behavior related to the number of threads used when using smaller core systems.  Could affect running TCKs that are running on smaller number of CPU systems.    
* [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1135](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues/1135)  
  * For Persistence IBM discovered that everything in the Persistence spec is scoped to the module.  Injecting via @Resource can only inject things in the module.  
  * IBM is looking at possibly needing to scope the CDI Extension for Persistence per module instead of per application or per JVM  
  * [https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.2/jakarta-persistence-spec-3.2\#a12459](https://jakarta.ee/specifications/persistence/3.2/jakarta-persistence-spec-3.2#a12459) has referencing to other persistence units function outside of the module as well.  
  * May not be able to do this similar logic with @Inject with CDI or better define the limitation with CDI  
  * More things needs to be flushed out for this issue to come up with changes that are needed

