# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-07-15

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Brian Stansberry (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Gurunandan Rao(Oracle)  
- Ed Burns (MSFT)  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- 

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Jared will not be at the next call (could possibly join late).  James will run the meeting  
* August potentially a few weeks off due to many people on vacation  
  * James and Ivar not available week 1  
  * Jared and Ivar not available week 2  
  * Jared and Ivar not available week 3  
* Platform committer ballot started for James  
  * If you haven’t voted yet, do so now  
    [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Ajamezp+is%3Aclosed](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform-tck/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3Ajamezp+is%3Aclosed)   
* OSSRH update  
  * Credentials added to the Jenkins config and it is appears to be moving forward  
  * Other projects are working with IT for staging as well  
  * Updating parent to add the new plug-in and then each CI job will need to be updated to invoke the new plug-in

## Jakarta EE 12

* MP and Jakarta update  
  * No conclusions yet  
  * MP doing about a month shutdown for the summer months  
  * Next meeting will be in about 4 weeks from now  
  * Config moving over is still being discussed  
    * Namespace is still a concern since it requires all MP specs to update if changing the namespace  
    * Also will break all existing MP applications since Config is used in all specs  
    * Could consider having Jakarta Config with jakarta namespace and a corresponding new version of MP config that still has the MP namespace on top of Jakarta Config  
  * MP talked about making updates on the MP Config side to be able to prepare for moving over to Jakarta.  Core and CDI based Config APIs  
  * MP also discussing some things about MP and how some specs don’t really handle multiple applications well in their specifications.  If all of MP moves over to Jakarta, some things like this will need to be discussed.  Another example is that MP doesn’t handle EARs at all.  
* Platform / Profile dependency discussion  
  * We kicked the can down the road to address in EE 12\.  Need to open an issue for this if one doesn’t exist to discuss this again about how we change our profile / platform dependency.  Using bom may be the way to go.  
* Make sure that component projects are tuned into the schedule for platform for EE 12\.  Attending platform meeting / reading minutes / subscribed to the platform mailing list?  
* Will need some help with EJB for glassfish for EE 12 where tests are removed from the exclude list.  Would love to resolve that early in the release cycle instead of waiting until the end  
* Want to make sure that the bom is updated as part of milestone releases so that as the component specs release their milestone the bom is updated when the profile / platform are released  
* Thoughts of a tentative Milestone schedule  
  * Milestone 1 \- September 2025  
    * OSSRH updates  
    * Service release branch created for N-1 release  
    * New / main branch up-to-date with service release updates from previous version  
    * Version update to the new version number including updating Export and Import versions in [MANIFEST.MF](http://MANIFEST.MF) and Specification document  
    * TCK moved from platform repo if appropriate  
    * Remove all tests from exclude list  
    * TCK running with EE 11 ratifying implementation (tests could be failing due to new tests added)  
    * Jenkins job created for the new version for API, Javadoc, spec and TCK  
    * Make sure service stream Jenkins jobs are working for API and TCK  
    * If not done, move from master branch to main  
  * Milestone 2 \- October 2025  
    * TCK running with Java 25 since should already be running with Java 21  
  * Milestone 3 \- November 2025  
  * Milestone 4 \- January 2026  
    * Core Profile nearing completion?  
  * Milestone 5 \- February 2026  
  * Milestone 6 \- March 2026  
  * ….  
* Announcement of schedule for ballot for inclusion into the platform specification  
  * Make inclusion contingent the spec completing on the schedule we set for EE 12  
  * Query 1.0 and NoSQL 1.1 for sure could be voted on  
  * Config 1.0 / 4.0 is up in the air with MP discussions  
  * HTTP 1.0 hasn’t even had creation review yet  
  * Can discuss MVC 3.1 for inclusion, but seems like it should remain standalone  
  * Something to consider as part of Milestone 1 to not do the voting during the summer months  
  * As these specs progress before September, that will help their case for inclusion in the platform

* \[Ivar\] Discussion item: How can we position Jakarta EE 12 in relation to AI?  
  * New specification(s)?  
    * Not likely at this time for EE 12  
  * Addition to specification(s)?  
  * Verbiage in existing specification(s)?  
  * Discussion points  
    * ACTION:  Ed’s gist for a future blog post that he started    
    * Langchain4j discussions that are happening that integrate with Jakarta  
    * AI technologies are not quite stable yet.  Jakarta is usually spec’ing mature technologies which can hurt the reputation of the platform.  MP would usually be more likely to do things for less stable technologies.   
  * [https://blogs.vmware.com/tanzu/production-worthy-ai-with-spring-ai-1-0/](https://blogs.vmware.com/tanzu/production-worthy-ai-with-spring-ai-1-0/) 
