# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-10-21

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Matej Novotny (IBM)  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)  
- Petr Aubrecht (Payara)  
- Otavio Santana  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* OSSRH update  
  * Still using [2.0.0-M1](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/org/eclipse/ee4j/project/2.0.0-M1/%20Central%20Repository:%20org/eclipse/ee4j/project/2.0.0-M1%20) of the parent POM  
* [3 CCRs](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification) created last few weeks EE 9.x  
* Next Jakarta Futures call  
  * Our next scheduled [Jakarta EE Future Directions](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-future-directions) meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October 30th, 2025 at 12:00 noon EDT.  
  * Mary Grygleski will present some interesting ideas on Jakarta EE and AI. (delayed from last week)

## Jakarta EE 12

* [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1) dashboard populated with M1 issues for each spec with an update for EE 12\.  
  * Will update platform with M1 content of the component specs that are done  
  * Will be moving on to M2.  Some specs will end up not having an M1.  Thatâ€™s ok.  
* Jakarta and MicroProfile Update  
  * Emily sent a [proposal](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg04832.html) to the mailing list about MP joining Jakarta EE  
  * What happened at the MP steering committee last week?  
    * No one was on who was at the meeting to be able to give an update  
* Marlow: What follow up is needed if any on the Connectors read-only transaction hint issue?  
  * \> Transaction [issue](https://github.com/jakartaee/transactions/issues/220) is currently closed.  Will be re-opened to address these other concerns across the platform ecosystem  
    * Marlow: What exactly to be done here and by which team?  
    * Are we concerned that read-only transactions will break Connectors or any other specification?  
      * Transactions team will need guidance on what is expected exactly.  
    * ACTION:  Re-open transaction issue to continue to drive updates in other specs  
      * Transactions should open issue and work with [Connectors](https://github.com/jakartaee/connectors/issues/168) and Platform (for JDBC).  
      * JDBC already has setReadOnly on its connection API  
      * Issue needed for Messaging as well?  Messaging uses connectors  
* Marlow: GlassFish [dev ml discussion mentioned](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/glassfish-dev/msg01701.html) last week  
  * GF is working on EE 11 and afterward they will be working toward a GF 9 for EE 12\.    
  * We can use GF 8 until they are ready.  Yes things will fail, but at least the jobs are running.  
  * Open Liberty and Wildfly are working on EE 11 as well  
  * For EE 12, looking to separate the GF artifacts to be outside of the TCK itself into its own branch  
* Project restructure  
  * After platform and tck projects are combined, we may need to trim down our committee list and move people to historic committer list if it is appropriate and following the [process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/handbook/#elections-retire-cm).

