# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2025-10-28

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- César Hernández (Tomitribe)  
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* OSSRH update  
  * Ivar talked with Sebastian.  He is working on the new plugin.  A new Nexus 3 is set up.  Ivar is requesting to have it complete by the end of November.  
* Next Jakarta Futures call  
  * Our next scheduled [Jakarta EE Future Directions](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-future-directions) meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October 30th, 2025 at 12:00 noon EDT.  
  * Mary Grygleski will present some interesting ideas on Jakarta EE and AI. (delayed from last week)  
* Platform and TCK project combination status  
  * [The EMO issue](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/emo-team/emo/-/issues/1060) has the latest details  
  * I am concerned about the TCK CI project being removed / archived.  Seems we need to move over to the platform one and transfer all the jobs over there.  
  * [https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/6746](https://gitlab.eclipse.org/eclipsefdn/helpdesk/-/issues/6746) is being done on October 30 that may affect things.

## Jakarta EE 12

* [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1) has been updated to M2 and M1 issues that were not done for M1 were updated to M2.  Need to make new M2 issues for the other projects  
  * Tasks to consider for M2  
    * TCK lazy consensus policy per component  
    * TCK issue template  
    * Jenkins job publication documented in wiki / github pages  
  * M2 date:  Dec 9  
* MP and Jakarta status  
  * Emily is thinking to start a ballot in the near future about namespace  
  * There have been discussions related to implementation projects being part of the working group and those to be in a separate space than Jakarta  
    * [https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakarta.ee-community/msg03345.html](https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakarta.ee-community/msg03345.html)  
    * [https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j) has both specification and implementation projects under it  
    * If implementations were moved to a separate space, would that affect the schedule for EE 12?  
    * Would like to have opinion from the platform team since our opinion has a lot of weight  
    * Would be nice to have more diversity of implementations for the release ballots  
    * In order to release a specification, an implementation is required.  So API and implementation can be pretty closely tied to each other

    