# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2026-05-26

Present:

- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- John Clingan (IBM) \- 1st half of call  
- Michael Redlich (Garden State JUG)  
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Emily Jiang (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Ivar is running the call today.  Jared and James out this week  
* New CCRs came in last week, 6 of which were for Liberty as promised  
  * Once the Liberty CCRs are approved, [this PR](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/starter/pull/382) can be moved out of draft and Reza can review and approve it.  
* Olivier created [a PR](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-api/pull/202) to update the jakartaee-api to have all the latest component spec milestone versions in it

## Jakarta EE 12

* M5 week 2 of 6 starts this week (M5 ends June 30\)  
* Core Profile progress  
  * CDI  
    * 5.0.0.Beta1 is released  
  * JSON-B  
    * Working on CI job updates \- done  
    * Service release for 3.0.2 produced  
    * Aiming to have a milestone for 3.1.0 release soon, definitely this week  
  * JSON-P  
    * Started working on CI job updates  
    * Aiming to have a milestone release soon  
    * No updates this week  
  * REST  
    * James is out for 2 weeks.  Don’t expect a lot of progress until he returns

* Update Release Plan  
  * [https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/blob/gh-pages/jakartaee12/JakartaEE12ReleasePlan.md](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/blob/gh-pages/jakartaee12/JakartaEE12ReleasePlan.md)  
  * Help needed. Update the dates:  
    * Core Profile Q4 2026  
    * Web/Platform Q2 2027

* SNAPSHOT Releases of the Jakarta EE API publishes nightly


* Marlow: EE 11 TCK challenge?  
  * As [per slack discussion](https://eclipsefoundationhq.slack.com/archives/C0131MLD538/p1779344013970659)   
    * mvn clean verify \-f platform\_pom.xml \-Pee \-Dit.test=[ee.jakarta.tck.persistence.ee](http://ee.jakarta.tck.persistence.ee).packaging.ejb.exclude.ClientTest  
      * \`Could not deploy jpa\_ee\_packaging\_ejb\_exclude.ear as jpa\_ee\_packaging\_ejb\_exclude\`  
      * \`Could not resolve a persistence unit corresponding to the persistence-context-ref-name \[[ee.jakarta.tck.persistence.ee](http://ee.jakarta.tck.persistence.ee).packaging.ejb.exclude.Stateful3Bean/entityManager\] in the scope of the module called \[jpa\_ee\_packaging\_ejb\_exclude\#appclientproxy.war\]. Please verify your application.\`  
      * \`A TCK challenge should be opened and either the (11.0.x) test excluded or updated. If we exclude the test, we can figure out a more portable update for EE 12\`  
  * First challenge to be reported from GlassFish?

* Redlich: Arjan Tijms will provide an update on the new features of Jakarta Concurrency 3.2 at the Jakarta EE Future Directions meeting scheduled for May 28, 2026 at 12:00 EDT.  
* MP (Config) merge into Jakarta EE?  
  * Jan will present his “future directions” presentation on the next call  
* Jakarta NoSQL  
  * Otavio will present about the “driver communication” on the next call