# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2026-06-16

Present:

- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM) will not be present today  
- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Anand N K (IBM)  
- Anagha Paulson (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- John Clingan (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Bernd Müller (Ostfalia)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- Kenji Kazumura  
- Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* Glassfish CCRs came in last week and were approved  
  * GlassFish is now even Jakarta EE Core Profile 11 compatible  
* No other new CCRs to review  
* James has a conflict today

## Jakarta EE 12

* M5 week 5 of 6 starts this week (M5 ends June 30\)  
  * Jakarta NoSQL 1.1-M3 was released

* Core Profile progress  
  * CDI  
    * Beta1  
  * JSON-B  
    * 3.1.0 M1 is now out  
    * Kyle is out for 6 weeks    
  * JSON-P  
    * No M1 yet, but is planned  
  * REST  
    * Neena from IBM is helping getting some issues worked on  
    * Moving forward without arbitrary CDI method injection.  Easier for everyone

* Release Plan is not updated yet for EE 12\.  Still needs to be done.  
  * It would be good to get a set of specifications aligned with specific milestones to make Web Profile and Platform done for next year  
* MP   
  * Steering committee call next Tuesday  
  * MP 7.2 RC timeframe is coming up  
  * July 21 is planned final release for 7.2  
  * MP call today to go over the tutorial  
  * Generally moved to every other week for MP calls

* Config  
  * Continued discussion from last week  
  * Jakarta Config being separate from MP Config brought up again  
    * Use the current Jakarta Config version that exists today  
    * Could have MP config eventually depend on Jakarta Config if we did that approach  
    * With different release cycles for Jakarta and MP that gets messy and gets messy for the developer possibly  
    * Jakarta Config would be the non CDI version of the MP config with a different namespace  
    * Concern about the two specifications having different features in the future causing breaking changes  
    * MP Config has had little change though for many years  
    * Are we just overcomplicating things?  Make Jakarta Config and make that the future Config specification for both Jakarta and MP  
    * Have Jakarta Config have both core and cdi in Jakarta Config in order to support what we have discussed in the past to allow CDI to depend on config  
    * Will need to have a ratifying implementation of course.  Need a vendor to commit to make one.  
    * MP and Jakarta having separate working groups is still an issue.  If we move it all to Jakarta, in one lump is easier.  As Config evolves, it will all be in the same place and MP component specs all depend on Config  
    * Jakarta Config can have the core function and MP can have a different config source that is specific when running in a MP environment.  Implementations can have the MP function on top of the Jakarta function to handle the MP namespace annotations, etc.  
    * Discussions need to happen at the MP and Jakarta steering committee calls in the coming weeks

  * Compatible implementation for EE 12  
    * Steering committee is tracking this concern on every call to poll all the vendors  
    * Glassfish could be the ratifying implementation possibly for Core Profile where it hasn’t in the past.  Depends on component implementations of course.  
    * Liberty and Wildfly has historically been Core Profile ratifying implementations  
    * Vendors balance customers, resources and other priorities which makes it hard to commit yet for being a ratifying implementation

    

## Jakarta EE 11

* JSON-B 3.0.2 TCK download is correct now to be a zip instead of an html file.