# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2026-01-13

Present:

- Jared Anderson (IBM)  
- Kyle Aure (IBM)  
- Anagha Paulson (IBM)  
- James Perkins (IBM)  
- Scott Marlow (IBM)  
- Nathan Rauh (IBM)  
- Reshmi Vijayan (IBM)  
- Tom Watson (IBM)  
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)  
- David Matejcek (OmniFish)  
- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)  
- César Hernández (Tomitribe)  
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)

## Top of mind for Jared, James

* OSSRH status  
  * Kyle worked with Seb last week.  Any progress?  
  * Plugin seems to be set up right to promote from staging to maven  
  * Still having issues for how to push built artifacts from the job to the staging repository.  It appears to want to push something from a repository  
  * Also not sure how to drop an artifact from staging yet with the plug-in  
  * May need some updates to the pom, but want to know the intended use for the plug-in  
  * Also have questions about if / how people will be able to download something from staging once we are able to finally push something to staging  
  * Arjan: Glassfish tried to use the M1 parent to push to maven central for glassfish.  Some directives were ignored. Was trying to upload, but not publish, but it published because it ignored a directive it appears (was caused by dev mistake, plugins vs. pluginManagement)  
    * Parent pom does have auto publish set to true  
    * Need to set the auto publish to be false  
    * If using the maven release plugin, you need to set it there as well  
* [30 new platform CCRs](https://github.com/jakartaee/platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Acertification) came in over the holidays for EE 8, 10 and 11\.  
  * Two additional ones were still there from previous weeks  
  * Ivar accepted all the non EE 11 ones.  Need to validate the EE 11 ones more closely since they are the first CCRs of a non beta / early access release  
  * 3 new ones came in overnight from InforSuite.  One for Platform 9, 9.1 and 10  
  * Not just Ivar’s responsibility.  Others on the platform community can / should look at CCRs.  
    * Ed: Could make a checklist for us to go over when validating a platform CCR.  
    * Could assign CCRs to a vendor each meeting as they come up to be more prescriptive on who does reviews  
  * Arjan: Would be nice to know what components are used by a product  
    * Was done previously with JCP possibly  
    * Possibly could make it optional for people to provide  
    * Something for us to discuss or spec committee?  

## Jakarta EE 12

* Dashboard status for EE 12  
  * [https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1](https://github.com/orgs/jakartaee/projects/20/views/1)   
  * Jan 27 M2 date  
  * Faces 5.0  
    * Working hard on it and getting issues resolved  
  * Concurrency 3.2  
    * Arjan has done some work there.  
  * Security specs are a bit in limbo still  
  * Vendors finishing their EE 11 implementations does impact EE 12 spec and implementation work since same people work on both EE 11 and 12  
    * Talking with customers they aren’t expecting EE 12 to be released so quickly since EE 11 just came out last year  
* Platform TCK  
  * Anything big going to be done for EE 12 like the refactoring for EE 11 that caused delay?  
    * Platform requirements for EE 12 will add new TCK tests  
    * Possible new tests for missed tests from previous EE levels  
  * Still waiting on Glassfish?  
    * Will probably be months before will have something  
    * Loss of EclipseLink experts from the community is a significant factor  
      * Other vendors are using it that are not participating in the community  
      * Could there be funding to help that out?  
* NoSQL status  
  * Updates on driver inclusion  
* MP / MP Config status  
  * Community call was last Tuesday  
    * Discussions about MP config new function  
    * If MP config moves to Jakarta, they are looking at having MP config still with the original API package that is built on top of a jakarta package named Config API  
  * Technical call is today.  Discussions will be today about how things go with MP or MP Config moving to Jakarta
