# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-01-11

Present (please put your name down here to mark yourself as present…):

* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces / Piranha)
* Cesar Hernández (Tomitribe)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Majid Mostafavi
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)


## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Glassfish 7 released a milestone 7.0-M1 in maven central. Available from Eclipse download.

* Jakarta Common Annotations 2.1 release: 
    * 2.1 was released to the staging some time ago. 
    * Need to discuss in the spec committee regarding the release 
    * Need an implementation to prove whether the release is okay.
    * @RolesAllowed, @Priority, @PostConstruct and other annotations are to be tested.
    * @DatasourceDefinition annotation is not used by multiple places
    * Debugging spec falls into the similar category.
    * Use Glassfish as the compatible implementation.

* Scott to create Interceptor 2.1 plan review and provide a release candidate
    * On the staging repo, Arjan to delete delete 2.1-RC1, 2.0.1-RC1        
    * Create 2.1-RC1: pull in common annotations; module-info \

### [Emily] @Priority Survey

* [@Priority Survey result](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1GE813Mn1LZa1SLST0Zasjih92gw-sE-Mmv3YtZca_IM/edit?vc=0&c=0&w=1&flr=0#responses)

* In summary, the top options are:
    * **Do nothing: 22.4%**
    * **Define a new annotation such as @Ranking (highest number means high priority): 22.4%**
    * I think this survey result can influence the design for the new Jakarta Commons to define a new API that supersedes @Priority annotation.

### [Emily] New TCK namespace discussion
    
* Do we allow jakarta.* for the new TCKs in Jakarta EE 10?
    * JSON-B, JSON-P and Restful Web Services are affected
    * Platform restriction: add limitation not to use jakarta.* for application

*  [TCK namespace convention survey](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15fYMht-RxiKGDZVzeecjS0xrKtHifGXliEeD-4pYL_U/edit?vc=0&c=0&w=1&flr=0#responses) used for new TCKs of Jakarta EE 11 and onwards

###  [Lukas] Format and content of the jakarta.&lt;spec>-tck artifact

* zip with tests + user guide + documentation etc
    
* jar with tests only and user guide + documentation etc elsewhere (on the web/spec page?)

* If tests use test implementation, where to put an artifact/tests having/using that? (ie tests for the pluggability of an implementation)
