# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-04-26

Present:
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces / Piranha)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Will have a special spec committee meeting this week to follow progress on starting ballots.

* Down to 7 needing to go to ballot:
    * [https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YTUpfdLZZrk2_UGwoX2w0seOCueRO3sQJIjWxpDAa7g/edit#gid=35969432](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YTUpfdLZZrk2_UGwoX2w0seOCueRO3sQJIjWxpDAa7g/edit#gid=35969432)
    * Faces: getting help with the TCK. Down to the last few tests	
    * Pages: last second change, new deprecation, adjust GlassFish with the changes and reruns the TCK
    * Security: TCK done, staged, user guide needs update
    * Authentication: Same as for Security, Authentication has a standalone TCK. TCK done, remains to upload TCK, run against GlassFish and file CCR. On track for May 1st.
    * Authorization: Part of Platform TCK. Scott has added tests for the three features that were missing last week. Remains to package, upload and run tests
    * Web and Platform TCK have failures mostly due to Authorization, Faces integration
        * 7-900 errors, mostly in Web Profile for EJB using Authorization and Faces
        * Errors due to switch from JSP to Facelets. Tests need to be updated the same way as was done in the Faces tests  

* Round of updates made to platform specifications and profiles

    * Two statements to include. See below.

        * Candidate statement on Jakarta package namespace for Platform spec:
            *  [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eE1vioEL5QprKxEMwKFJkNUOsKdV7rHJyFLMGj96Abo/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eE1vioEL5QprKxEMwKFJkNUOsKdV7rHJyFLMGj96Abo/edit#) 

        * SecurityManager
            * Request to OpenJDK team to include migration support in Java SE 21: [https://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/security-dev/2022-April/030094.html](https://mail.openjdk.java.net/pipermail/security-dev/2022-April/030094.html)
            * EE10 candidate statement: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fOxfL3AUj_wr29kW3fwvUUloGxHhpoAXEW_x-fkyfFs/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fOxfL3AUj_wr29kW3fwvUUloGxHhpoAXEW_x-fkyfFs/edit?usp=sharing) \

* **Action for all: Read the statements and give feedback in the document!** 

* Ivar will stage a 10.0.0 of the API jars 

* Platform TCK User Guide updates needed

### Jakarta Annotations
* No TCK coverage on the new annotations added to the Jakarta Annotations (EE 10): Nonnull, Nullable
* Common annotations are traditionally tested by the specifications using them, and tested by these TCKs
* Currently, no other specifications are using Nonnull and Nullable, so they are not tested anywhere
* There are signature tests for all Annotations
* Description of how they should be used is up to the specification using them
* Signature tests for Nonull and Nullable are already in the Platform TCK
* Any potential tests should be added to the Platform TCK. Emily will look into this. 

### Current Ballot status
* Core Profile
    * Annotation 2.1   		Ballot complete February 9
    * CDI Lite 4.0   		 	Ballot completed April 19
    * Expression Language 5.0	**Sent to ballot April 25**
    * Interceptors 2.1   		Ballot complete April 6
    * JSON Binding 3.0   	 	Ballot complete March 18
    * JSON Processing 2.1   	Ballot complete March 24
    * RESTful Web Services 3.1	Ballot complete April 6 \

* Web Profile
    * Authentication 3.0
    * CDI 4.0   			Ballot complete April 19
    * Concurrency 3.0
    * Faces 4.0
    * Tags 3.0			**Sent to ballot April 25**
    * Pages 3.1
    * Persistence 3.1   		Ballot complete April 6
    * Security 3.0
    * Servlet 6.0
    * WebSocket 2.1		**Sent to ballot April 21** \

* Full Platform
    * Activation 2.1   		Ballot complete January 26
    * Authorization 2.1
    * Batch 2.1			Ballot complete Mar 18
    * Connectors 2.1 		**Sent to ballot April 25**
    * Mail 2.1   			Ballot complete February 11
    * Messaging 3.1			**Sent to ballot April 25**
    * SOAP with Attachments 3.0	Ballot complete March 15
    * XML Bindings 4.0   		Ballot complete April 7
    * XML Web Services 4.0   	Ballot complete April 6 \

* Looks like all “unresolved” specifications from last week are on track to meet the deadline of May 1st. \

* The GlassFish mailing list is a little silent regarding the failing tests. Platform TCK team would like some feedback regarding the remaining failures
    * Scott M. will post to the GlassFish mailing list 
