# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-04-12

Present:

* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces / Piranha)
* John Clingan (Red Hata)
* Cesar Hernández (Tomitribe)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Majid Mostafavi
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Core Profile TCK underway (Scott Stark)
* TCKs in general progressing slowly
* Notice sent to spec leads reminding them of the May 1 deadline for getting to the final ballot and asking them to contact spec committee mentor or platform team.
    * Nothing reported yet
* About half way through. 10 that hasn’t started ballot yet
* Deadline is May 1st
* [Faces](https://github.com/jakartaee/faces/issues/1600)+[Security](https://github.com/jakartaee/security/issues/219): mostly about finalizing the TCK work
* Can we drop off the specs that can not make May 1st?
    * Some specs might be ok: such as Messaging
    * EL probably not because of the dependencies
    * Some specs might be ready but the spec cmt have not done the ballot
* [Platform TCK Standalone TCK results](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/wiki/Jakarta-EE-10.0-TCK-results) with GlassFish 7.0 (not always the ballot ci)
* Scott will ask the spec committee to get the status of ballot progress of the 10 remaining specs: \
Websocket, server pages
    * Scott M said websocket tcks passed with glassfish
* Glassfish status:
    * Ajan said there are some failures but he is working on the fixes
    * Concurrency is missing from the list. Glassfish needs to pass Concurrency tck (to be done)
* Scott S will send out a note with all open issues for TCKs that prevent specs from entering the ballot.
    * Action: help out with the open issues. Some of them might be getting an impl passing the tcks.
* security : new security tests arquillian based (such as openid connect); also look for implementations to pass the tcks
* Platform spec, core profile also need to go to ballot
* Scott will look at the open issues next week 
* to see how they are impacting the spec progress. \

### Current Ballot status

* Core Profile
    * Annotation 2.1   		Ballot complete February 9
    * CDI Lite 4.0   		 	Included in CDI 4.0 or a separate ballot?
    * Expression Language 5.0	
    * Interceptors 2.1   		Ballot complete April 6
    * JSON Binding 3.0   	 	Ballot complete March 18
    * JSON Processing 2.1   	Ballot complete March 24
    * RESTful Web Services 3.1	Ballot complete April 6 \

* Web Profile
    * Authentication 3.0
    * CDI 4.0   			Ballot started March 30, completes April 13
    * Concurrency 3.0
    * Faces 4.0
    * JSTL 3.0
    * Pages 3.1
    * Persistence 3.1   		Ballot complete April 6
    * Security 3.0
    * Servlet 6.0
    * WebSocket 2.1 \

* Full Platform
    * Activation 2.1   		Ballot complete January 26
    * Authorization 2.1
    * Batch 2.1
    * Connectors 2.1
    * Mail 2.1   			Ballot complete February 11
    * Messaging 3.1
    * SOAP with Attachments 3.0	Ballot complete March 15
    * XML Bindings 4.0   		Ballot complete April 7
    * XML Web Services 4.0   	Ballot complete April 6 \

### [Emily] Discuss to retain the TCKs for JSON-B and JSON-P at platform TCKs

* This was previously discussed in the Mar 15 meeting as well as a platform TCK meeting. 
* What is the impact for EE 10?
    * As long as no changes are done to the component spec TCKs, these ballots are not affected
    * Changes to the platform TCK is only affected by the ballot for the Platform (and profiles)
* Concern about consistency between the component specification tests and the platform tests
* Some specs: JSON-B, JSON-P TCKs 
* Arjan would like to see EL tcks running in EE container \
