# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-02-22

Present (please put your name down here to mark yourself as present…):

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces/Piranha)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Scott Kurz (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Werner Keil (Committer, Ambassador)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Final notice issue created for the following projects:
    * Jakarta Authorization 2.1 (Web Profile)
        * Arjan
    * Jakarta Connectors 2.1 (Web Profile)
        * Scott will ping the project to get the changes merged
    * Jakarta Standard Tag Library 3.0 (Faces (datasource), Web Profile)
        * Arjan
    * Jakarta Security 3.0 (Web Profile)
        * Arjan
    * Jakarta Faces 4.0 (Web Profile)
        * Arjan

* Jakarta Messaging has created PR and final API

* Looks good with regards to Feb 28 deadline

* New GlassFish milestone release will be staged soon
    * Problem with the “Concurrency RI”
    * Call-out to that project to produce an implementation
    * Implementation project has not been split out to separate project yet, but are split into separate GitHub repositories
    * Option to put it under GlassFish
    * Petr will contact Arjan to discuss
    * Not necessary to do before EE 10

* Hibernate

* Jakarta Enterprise Beans
    * [Open PR ](https://github.com/jakartaee/enterprise-beans/pull/141)for module-info
    * A multi-release JAR  will be created to support both SE 8 and SE 11? 

### TCK Distribution
* Action from last call: Check with EF if releasing TCK artifacts dual licensed (EFTL+EPL2) to Maven Central is ok (Ivar)
    * Using EFTL only is ok. Why do we need to dual-license?
    * Convenient for downstream users that want to use it for non-certification uses if it were distributed under an open source license
    * MicroProfile distribute their TCK artifacts under EFTL, no complaints so far
    * Is running the TCK in an automated build acceptable under EFTL?
        * Action (Ivar): Follow up with [license@eclipse-foundation.org](mailto:license@eclipse-foundation.org) to verify that dual licensed with EFTL or project license is ok to distribute to Maven Central
        * Separately released TCK artifacts vs ZIP bundle 

### Nexus staging
* Index has been updated manually
* The dependency graph can now be built again
* How can we let non-Eclipse project stage artifacts in the Jakarta Staging repository?
* The namespace-filter (rule) does not allow other than Jakarta, or Eclipse namespaces. Sonatype has the credentials for configuration of the repository.
* Miss a process for allowing other GAVs to be staged, e.g. org.jboss for Weld. Who is in charge of this? Who owns the Jakarta staging repository?