# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-02-08

Present:

* Jan Weterkamp (iJUG)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* Tomas Langer (Oracle)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Focus on TCK on projects
* Status from Connectors awaiting
* Most APIs available
* TCKs remaining
* The February 28 deadline:
    * At least a draft PR ready 
    * With candidates for API and Spec
* Core Profile will be delivered with Platform and Web
    * Without Config
    * Separate TCK? Initially no. May be some integration tests, but at least the standalone TCKs must pass
    * A User guide will explain how to run and which standalone TCKs that must be passed
    * For Interceptors, it may be sufficient passing the CDI TCK
    * Updates to the platform/web/core specification documents
        * Will be focus after February 28
* [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/339#issuecomment-1024302162](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/339#issuecomment-1024302162)
    * Is two weeks too long for keeping the PR open for discussion?
        * Let SPEC API team approve the PR as normal.
        * Notify via email the Platform team of the PR.
        * Review on weekly calls \

### Release process from Jakarta staging nexus to maven central

* In the past, (not sure if this is still the case) the release process from nexus to maven central used to verify that the dependencies you have in your pom exist on maven central too. Since Eclipse runs their own nexus repository, perhaps we should enable this release/promote check on the Eclipse nexus repository (if it isn't already). [Joakim]
    * This is not enabled as there have been artifacts released that only have staged dependencies.
    * [https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/](https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/) 
* Scott S will create an issue with the Eclipse Webmaster to see if this is a feature can be enabled in the Jakarta Nexus
* Scott will start working on an overview of the status of which artifacts (RCs, Milestones, etc) that have been released to Maven Central \