# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-02-01

Present (please put your name down here to mark yourself as present…):

* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Adam Anderson (IBM)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)


## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Discussed handling of standalone TCKs that still have relevant platform tests and have proposed strategy. [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V1dDLJkd14EDRMPeuI0VzPtU4Lbli8FFBd1pLDLlOrY/edit#heading=h.pf3pwl1kim9b](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V1dDLJkd14EDRMPeuI0VzPtU4Lbli8FFBd1pLDLlOrY/edit#heading=h.pf3pwl1kim9b)
    * Send questions/comments to the TCK/Platform mailing lists \

* Interceptors in process to go to the final review ballot. Have a question about using CDI TCK’s coverage of interceptors rather than platform EJB tests.
    * Interceptors does not have its own TCK or standalone CI
    * Traditionally being tested by the EJB testsuite
    * Question: Is the CDI testsuite an acceptable ratifying testsuite for interceptors?
    * CDI tests have better coverage for interceptors than EJB
    * Scott M. will check if the interceptor version has been updated in the platform tck
        * [Platform TCK ](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/blame/master/docker/pom.xml#L41)is still using Interceptors 2.0.0.
    * Run the CTS against GlassFish (7) with the updated interceptor version (2.1)
        * The @Priority annotation added in Interceptors 2.1 is currently only used in CDI tests (verified to be true by Scott Marlow). \

* Wiki page on use of java, javax, and jakarta for APIs, TCKs: [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/wiki/Package-Naming,-APIs,-TCKs](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/wiki/Package-Naming,-APIs,-TCKs)
    * Jan expressed concerns
    * TCKs should behave like user applications, and user applications are not allowed to use the Jakarta namespace.
    * Exact text from the spec committee minutes (to be published when minutes are approved after the next call): **“This is not desirable and needs to prohibited, TCKs are meant to be application code, they are not part of the spec”**

* Annotations ballot done, mail and activation in progress. Incremental progress on several other specs.

--- Items below were not discussed on this call ---

### Release process from Jakarta staging nexus to maven central

* In the past, (not sure if this is still the case) the release process from nexus to maven central used to verify that the dependencies you have in your pom exist on maven central too. Since Eclipse runs their own nexus repository, perhaps we should enable this release/promote check on the Eclipse nexus repository (if it isn't already). [Joakim]
    * This is not enabled as there have been artifacts released that only have staged dependencies.
