# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-03-29

Present:

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces / Piranha)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Majid Mostafavi
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
* Werner Keil (Individual)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Scott Kurz (IBM)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* All individual component specifications must have started their release review by May 1st, 2022. Should we set target dates for the waves? - not for this release
* Tracking TCK status in the Spec Committee spreadsheet. New column in [Jakarta EE Spec Mentor Assignments & Ballot Progress](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1YTUpfdLZZrk2_UGwoX2w0seOCueRO3sQJIjWxpDAa7g/edit#gid=35969432)
* None of the standalone TCKs are currently blocking anything
* Concurrency TCK passed with OpenLiberty, would be great to have another implementation as well to verify that the TCK 
* Faces
* Security/Authentication TCK (new) 
    * Tests are done that test new authentication functionality.
    * No Platform tck integration yet.
    * Need signature testing + user guide doc.
    * TCK is pretty much ready to be used.
    * The schedule goal is to have all of the above complete and implementation has passed, the date is not set yet (depends on what else we want to do with regard to how implementations run the TCK).
        * Implementations need to run the old Platform TCK authentication still.
    * Tests for OpenID Connect functionality needs some more attention
        * OpenID Connect Provider via Spring app run under Tomcat currently \

### JSON-B TCKs: which test execution dependencies should be required to be from the vendor implementation?

* SE only tests
* Dependencies: Spec API + implementation (with its dependencies)
* If a vendor packages a certified implementation **unchanged** (e.g. Yasson), the JSON-B tests do not need to be run.
* If a vendor repackages a certified implementation (e.g. Yasson) **with changes**, then the standalone JSON-B TCK tests must be run on this repackaged artifact
* How can the correct integration be validated?
    * The platform tests verifies the integration
    * The SE tests verifies the implementation
* The platform TCK user guide will instruct implementations which tests to run, and how to run them. This documentation work is currently ongoing.
    * The documentation should also specify what changes that will make it necessary to to run the standalone TCK
* An implementation specifically built for an EE environment will not necessarily be able to run the SE TCK tests. An [issue will be submitted to the JSON](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jsonb-api/) Binding project (TCK) 