# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-03-08

Present:

* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Scott Kurz (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Jesse McConnell(Webtide)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces/Piranha)
* Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Cesar Hernande (Tomitribe)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat) 

Absent:

* Scott Stark (Red Hat) apologies

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Need to decide on direction for security manager tests for EE10
    * [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/406](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/406) 
    * [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/issues/743](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/issues/743) 
    * Label that TCK passed with/without SM?
    * Get an overview of tests/assertions that include the SM?
    * Will we require SM to be turned on for implementations running on SE 18 and higher?
        * SM turned off by default in SE 18. Can be turned on by command-line args
    * How do we want to do this in EE11? Can that point us in the right direction for EE10?
    * Suggestion: For EE10, the TCK tests that require the SM must be run with SM enabled
    * Action: Document a proposal in Issue [#406](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/406)
    * TCK must allow to set the security manager via command-line property
    * The platform spec should include a detailed statement with recommendations regarding the SM
        * <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Security Chapter</span>
    * All GlassFish test scripts are checked in
        * Requested a PR with SM disabled in all scripts to run the test to identify which tests fails without SM
        * Run a CI job with and one without the SM to compare on GlassFish

### TCK for SE 11 and 17

* For EE10, GlassFish will be certified on both SE 11 and SE 17. Other implementations can choose to certify on one or both.

— Items below were not discussed on this call — 

### Jakarta EE 10

* Need to gather use cases from vendors with clients using a security manager to shape feedback to OpenJDK teams
* Example TCK bundle setup provided for Concurrency. It provides a single bundle that can be provided for the current downloads area. Is there a need to explore other approaches for EE10? 

### TCK for SE 11 and 17

* For EE10, GlassFish will be certified on both SE 11 and SE 17. Other implementations can choose to certify on one or both.

### EE 10 TCK schedule

* Finish TCK test changes by end of March.
* Finish TCK test bug fixing by end of April.
* Complete documentation changes by end of April.
* If we can do ^, TCKs should be complete by middle of May.

### Unable to run standalone TCKs in JSON-B from application servers as they are junit tests 

* Any update?

