# Monthly Platform Architecture Call

Date: 2022-11-01

Present:

* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)’
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)

## Agenda and Minutes

### CDI Centric Approach ([#552](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/552))
   
* Formulate a statement for CDI Centric
* Write down what it actually means
    * Is CDI always available?
    * Check with the Servlet specification to see what the implications would be to require Servlets to be CDI Beans. There may be good reasons not to.
        * E.g. Scopes and Interceptors applied to Servlets
            * Use case? 
                * CDI based interceptors for security instead of @ServletSecurity
            * Consistency across the platform? 
    * Focus on the higher level specifications that we want application developers to use. All these should/must embrace CDI
* **ACTION**: Create a document capturing the key decisions: Scott Stark	
    * What does CDI Centric mean?
* **ACTION**: Make sure more reps from the Servlet team are present at the next monthly call: Ivar will send special invite 

### Java SE Version Alignment ([#553](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/553))
   
* Steering Committee has provided input in the issue above
* Discussion around Java SE LTS releases 

### Release Cadence
* Define higher level architectural requirements
* Encourage individual component specifications to release faster
    * Usually, they’re working toward the next Jakarta EE release
* Platform specification will pick up specifications that are ready (and qualifies according to the arch reqs)
* Poll specification projects for their plans? (topic for next month’s call)
    * Can feed into a release plan 

### Participation in TCK Refactoring ([#559](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/559))
   
* Revisit next month’s call
* Monthly TCK call tomorrow
    * Send email reminder to Platform List 
* [Refactoring planning issue](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/issues/1126)