# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-03-15

Present:

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Cesar Hernández (Tomitribe)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Roberto Cortez (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)


## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)

* Progress looking good for the component specifications
* Discussion regarding review of copyrights
    *  2018, 2022
    * Spec Document Copyright page
        * Spec License should have 2018 as date (in the Notice part)
    * Footer for JavaDoc
    * TCK User Guide Footer
    * TCK User Guide Copyright page
    * TCK Release notes
* CCR should link to the correct TCK File 

### Jakarta EE Core Profile milestone release on Staging?

### We need to start producing the updates to Platform spec document and profiles specs 

### Automate jQAassistant reports

* Set up a Jenkins job for this (Ivar and Jan)

### Unable to run standalone TCKs in JSON-B from application servers as they are junit tests 

* Has been agreed upon in the TCK calls

* There are two sets of TCK tests
    * Standalone tests
    * Platform tests
        * (Smaller amount of) tests for how JSON-B behaves in the Platform

* No-one on the call objected to this way of handling standalone TCK tests

* TCK User Guides should list all additional requirements that need to be met to pass the TCK. 

* A Platform including JSON-B must
    * Pass the Platform TCK tests for JSON-B, and
    * Either include an implementation that has passed the JSON-B standalone tests
    * Or pass the standalone tests with their own implementation

* The Platform TCK must be clear on how to handle standalone TCKs

* JSON-B was used as an example in the discussion. It applies to all specifications with standalone TCKs (refactored out of the platform TCK)

* EE implementations should still provide JSON-B/P test results or provide link to passing CCR for the JSON-P/B implementation
    * Providing links to the CCR could be problematic to track.
    * Provide Platform TCK user guide guidance on where EE implementations should look to find the CCRs.
    * Include only summary of tests passed from CCR or include full log of which tests passed?
        * Marlow: vote for CCR summary of number of tests passed
        * Results are self-validated by the implementor.
    * , to write up Platform TCK requirements for new separated TCK.  Scott Marlow can help also.  
        * to help validate that the requirements can be met.  Scott Marlow can help also.