# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-03-22

Present:

* Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* James Perkins (Red Hat)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Scott Kurz (IBM)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)
* CDI to restart their release review
    * Need to resolve a PR on Weld (compatible implementation) before resuming
    * Does not affect the Interceptors ballot
* REST to restart their release review after TCK challenge \

### Jakarta EE Core Profile Artifact

* [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-api/pull/118](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-api/pull/118) 
* [https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/jakartaee10/JakartaEE10CoreProfileRelasePlan](https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/jakartaee10/JakartaEE10CoreProfileRelasePlan) 
* PR looks good to merge, please comment! Otherwise it will be merged and staged pretty soon \

### Java 18 (General Availability today) followup

* OpenLiberty and WildFly have run with Java 17/18 and have results
    * [jakartaee-tck/issues/743 is tracking issue](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-tck/issues/743) for analyzing Security Manager use in TCK. 
    * 

* Batch TCK does not support Java 18+ today.
    * Should Batch TCK do what Platform TCK does?

* RH to be more active in the JEP-411 discussions in OpenJDK

* (Option 1) Is there a general opinion that it is ok to make tests requiring Security Manager optional for Java SE 18+?
    * These tests should be listed
    * No, as discussed we should wait until we know exactly what is in Java SE 21 before saying `18+` will work.

* (Option 2) Another option is to limit to Java SE 17 for EE 10, and do a EE 11 release to allow for Java SE 21 (Sept 2023)? 
    * E.g. EE 11 would raise API source level to 17 and allow TCK to run on 17 and 21 (no refs to Security Manager in TCKs)	
    * All tests must pass. If an implementation is able to pass the tests on higher SE versions, that’s fine. \

* Seems that this group leans toward Option 2
