# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-07-19

Present:

* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Ryan Cuprak (Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Werner Keil (Committers, Jakarta EE Ambassadors)
* BJ Hargrave (IBM)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomtribe)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 Status (standing agenda item)
See items below.

### RESTful TCK updates and Core Profile
* 3.1.1 version has been staged, in testing
    * Looking good. No dependencies on Servlet/Security 
* Will need update of Core Profile TCK
* Scott will send out a message when this is ready
* Ivar will promote it when Scott has verified 

### CDI TCK
* The Arquillian plugin we are using depends on Servlet being present on the server
* The implementation must include “a protocol” the client test can communicate with the server under test. 
* The default protocol for the Arquillian plugin is http
* There are other protocols available, such as JMX
* Any protocol can be used, Options: 
    * 1. Add simple servlet support to impl
    * 2. Change the Arquillian adapter to support a protocol to use
* Is it ok to ratify the specification with an implementation that contains Servlet? Or do we have to validate with an implementation that doesn’t?
* OpenLiberty team will try to modify their aquillian adapter to use a REST endpoint rather than Servlet
    * [https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-arquillian](https://github.com/OpenLiberty/liberty-arquillian)
        * Maybe update it to rely on Jakarta REST instead of using Servlet 
* **DECISION**: Not a blocker for the release of Core Profile since it is about how to configure/implement the vendor specific adapter for the TCK 

### Concurrency TCK solution for Web Profile
* [https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/250](https://github.com/jakartaee/concurrency/pull/250)
* Still need a 3.0.2 TCK release
* A 3.0.1 TCK release is also in the works, but there is a conflict
* Scott will email on the spec committee mailing list to get a yes/no for the approach we’re taking, i.e. release 3.0.2 of the TCK. Send answer to cu-list as well. 

### Platform ballot ready?
* Need the specification updated to final
* Scott will generate new spec documents later today 

### Independent releases of profiles/platform
* Complication is standalone TCKs that are used in more than one
* Should we release them independently?
    * How far away are we from Web- and Core Profiles?
* **DECISION**
    * Wait for a resolution for the “concurrency issue” above
    * Platform and Web Profile can go to ballot then
    * Core Profile go whenever ready

